Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}Kokomo, With a Caribbean-Influenced
Menu, Opens

\url{https://nyti.ms/334Mrro}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

off the menu

\hypertarget{kokomo-with-a-caribbean-influenced-menu-opens}{%
\section{Kokomo, With a Caribbean-Influenced Menu,
Opens}\label{kokomo-with-a-caribbean-influenced-menu-opens}}

The latest from the Little Tong team, Uighur food in Lower Manhattan,
and more restaurant news.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/dining/29off1/29off1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/florence-fabricant}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-florence-fabricant/author-florence-fabricant-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/florence-fabricant}{Florence
Fabricant}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{headliner}{%
\subsection{Headliner}\label{headliner}}

\hypertarget{kokomo}{%
\subsubsection{Kokomo}\label{kokomo}}

``Pan-Caribbean with Indian and Asian flavors'' is how Ria Graham
describes the food at the new spot she owns with her husband, Kevol
Graham, and her mother, Karen Valentine, who helps run the place. Both
Grahams have experience in the hospitality business. The chef, Christian
Aranibar, is from Lima, Peru, but became familiar with Caribbean food
while working on Margarita Island off the coast of Venezuela. The menu
offers spiced Rasta pasta, marinated shrimp with sautéed callaloo and
grilled pineapple, lentil meatballs in coconut curry, braised oxtail and
a calypso burger with grilled pineapple, Gruyère, guava and cilantro
sauce, and jerk fries. Artwork and crafts from the Caribbean islands
decorate the two-level space, which has outdoor seating for 76. Bamboo
is the material of choice for the bar where for now tropical, but
nonalcoholic, drinks are dispensed.

65 Kent Avenue (North 10th Street), Williamsburg, Brooklyn,
347-799-1312, \href{https://www.kokomonyc.com/}{kokomonyc.com}.

\hypertarget{opening}{%
\subsection{Opening}\label{opening}}

\hypertarget{silver-apricot-}{%
\subsubsection{Silver Apricot }\label{silver-apricot-}}

Long awaited but finally open, the latest spot from Simone Tong and
Emmeline Zhao (Little Tong) puts a contemporary spin on cooking that
takes a subtle approach with Chinese flavors. Dishes like charred
radishes with honey soy and smoked egg yolk, cucumber melon salad with
ramp vinaigrette, skirt steak with pickled wild spring onions and sesame
relish, and poached Arctic char with crisp fish cracklings are
highlights of a fairly brief menu for outdoor dining and takeout.

20 Cornelia Street (Bleecker Street), 929-367-8664,
\href{https://www.silverapricot.nyc/}{silverapricot.nyc}.

\hypertarget{cleo}{%
\subsubsection{Cleo}\label{cleo}}

The last restaurant-kitchen sighting of the chef Rocco DiSpirito was
about a year ago at the Standard Grill in the meatpacking district,
where he lasted about a year and a half. Now, he's cooking at a summer
pop-up at Cleo and Mondrian Terrace, both in the Mondrian Park Avenue
hotel in NoMad. The food is Mediterranean, rooted mostly in Italy, with
dishes like spaghetti with pistachio pesto, soft shell crab fritto
misto, a burger with provolone served like a hero, and charcoal-grilled
pizza bianca. For now, dining is outdoors, and takeout and delivery are
available. The chef, who has been selling his own gluten-free nut and
seed bread, became involved in this project because he wanted to work
with Stephen Brandman, a friend who runs the hotel. They say that some
of the proceeds, an amount yet to be determined, are being donated to
City Harvest.

Mondrian Park Avenue, 444 Park Avenue South (30th Street), 646-948-2370,
\href{http://www.mondrianparkave.com/}{mondrianparkave.com}.

\hypertarget{caravan-uighur-cuisine-}{%
\subsubsection{Caravan Uighur Cuisine }\label{caravan-uighur-cuisine-}}

The pillars of this sturdy Silk Road cuisine, lagman noodles and
skewered meats (over charcoal), are well represented here. Meat pies,
samsa pastries and dumplings, often fiercely spiced, are also served.

200 Water Street (Fulton Street, entrance on Pearl Street),
917-261-7445, no web.

\hypertarget{black-tap-singles--doubles-}{%
\subsubsection{Black Tap Singles \& Doubles
}\label{black-tap-singles--doubles-}}

A pop-up for this chain known for over-the-top milkshakes and burgers
that come in single and double sizes will be open into September.
Everything is available to stay or to go.

529 Broome Street (Avenue of the Americas), 917-639-3089,
\href{https://blacktap.com/}{blacktap.com}.

\hypertarget{wicked-jane-}{%
\subsubsection{Wicked Jane }\label{wicked-jane-}}

Delayed since April, this addition to the West Eighth Street dining
scene has a fresh, contemporary American menu. The owner, Zod Arifai, is
also the chef. He used to own several restaurants in New Jersey.

15 West Eighth Street, 646-329-5767,
\href{https://www.wickedjane.com/}{wickedjane.com}.

\hypertarget{cutlets-sandwich-co}{%
\subsubsection{Cutlets Sandwich Co.}\label{cutlets-sandwich-co}}

Richard Zaro, whose great-grandfather Joseph Zaro founded the New York
bakery chain, is on his own, opening a sandwich delivery company where
the specialty is breaded chicken cutlets. Sandwiches are layered on a
sesame hero or roll from Parisi Bakery in Little Italy. He gets his
ingredients mostly from farms in the region.

212-518-6091, \href{http://cutlets.co/}{cutlets.co}.

\hypertarget{bar-jones-}{%
\subsubsection{Bar Jones }\label{bar-jones-}}

This is
\href{https://gothamwestmarket.com/vendor/bar-jones-by-sushi-on-jones/}{the
third presence} for the Uchu Hospitality group at Gotham West Market,
after Don Wagyu and Sushi on Jones. It offers a good deal of outdoor
seating for Japanese bar food.

Gotham West Market, 600 11th Avenue (44th Street), 212-582-7940,
\href{https://uchuhospitality.com}{uchuhospitality.com}.

\hypertarget{outerspace}{%
\subsubsection{Outerspace}\label{outerspace}}

99 Scott, an indoor-outdoor event space, has just added a restaurant to
the complex. It's in a spacious, thickly planted garden area in the back
and includes socially distant booths that seat up to six people. Conner
Updegrave, who cooked at Blanca, and Luis Herrera, from Cosme, provide a
produce-driven seasonal menu with some Latin touches, like melon with
chiles and lime, corn with charred scallions, cashews and chiles, and
rotisserie chicken or maitake mushrooms with mole verde. There is music
and a movie program.

99 Scott, 99 Scott Avenue (Randolph Street), Bushwick, Brooklyn,
\href{https://99outerspace.com}{99outerspace.com}.

\hypertarget{main-street-tavern-}{%
\subsubsection{Main Street Tavern }\label{main-street-tavern-}}

Highway Restaurant \& Bar in East Hampton has taken over the former
Indian Wells Tavern and reopened it with this new name. It makes its
debut with garden seating, as well as a menu and service designed for
minimal contact. Indoors, there is a large bar and a dining room, both
done tavern-style with dark wood and tufted green leather. The executive
chef, Anand Sastry, ran the kitchen at Highway Restaurant for the past
six years. Here, he's taking a traditional route with a burger, lobster
roll and grain bowls.

177 Main Street, Amagansett, N.Y.,
\href{https://www.mainstreettavern.com/}{mainstreettavern.com}.

\hypertarget{looking-ahead}{%
\subsection{Looking Ahead}\label{looking-ahead}}

\hypertarget{shou-sugi-ban-house-}{%
\subsubsection{Shou Sugi Ban House }\label{shou-sugi-ban-house-}}

This Hamptons wellness retreat, where the chef Mads Refslund, who was a
founder of Noma, is the consultant, will lead two culinary weekends with
foraging excursions, food workshops, social distancing, and plant-rich
meals. The first, from Sept. 17 to 20, will be \$3,925 for one person,
\$6,185 for two. The second, from Oct. 9 to 12, will be \$4,750 for one
person, \$7,010 for two.

337 Montauk Highway, Water Mill, N.Y., 877-713-8025,
\href{https://shousugibanhouse.com/}{shousugibanhouse.com}.

\hypertarget{chefs-on-the-move}{%
\subsection{Chefs on the Move}\label{chefs-on-the-move}}

\hypertarget{giancarlo-junyent-}{%
\subsubsection{Giancarlo Junyent }\label{giancarlo-junyent-}}

Mr. Junyent, a native of Brazil who worked at Temple Court in Lower
Manhattan, is the new chef at Berimbau Brazilian Kitchen in the West
Village, which, after more than 10 years in business, has undergone
extensive renovations, including the installation of a cocktail window
open to the street.

\hypertarget{scott-koshnoodi-}{%
\subsubsection{Scott Koshnoodi }\label{scott-koshnoodi-}}

This co-owner of Parklife, a spacious indoor-outdoor bar in Gowanus,
Brooklyn, has taken over the kitchen. Denisse Lina Chavez, who was
running her restaurant, El Atoradero, from there, has moved on and plans
to reopen in a Manhattan food hall. Mr. Koshnoodi, a trained chef, is
fusing Texan fare with Persian specialties, like barbacoa tacos with
Persian yogurt. (His heritage is Persian, and he is from Texas.)

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.youtube.com/nytcooking}{\emph{YouTube}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get regular
updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and
shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
