Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}At Minneapolis Rally, an
Angry Trump Reserves Sharpest Attack for Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/33mxnSS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{at-minneapolis-rally-an-angry-trump-reserves-sharpest-attack-for-biden}{%
\section{At Minneapolis Rally, an Angry Trump Reserves Sharpest Attack
for
Biden}\label{at-minneapolis-rally-an-angry-trump-reserves-sharpest-attack-for-biden}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/12/us/politics/10dc-trump/10dc-trump-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 10, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MINNEAPOLIS --- A fired-up President Trump lashed out against Democrats
at a combative campaign rally on Thursday night, deriding them as ``very
sick and deranged people'' who were only investigating him for abuse of
power in order to ``erase your vote.''

Facing impeachment in the House, Mr. Trump took his case to his core
supporters, arguing that Democrats were trying to overturn the 2016
election because they knew they could not beat him in 2020. He singled
out former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as nothing but a toady for
President Barack Obama.

``He was only a good vice president because he knew how to kiss Barack
Obama's ass,'' Mr. Trump said, a line that drew huge roars of approval
from the crowd.

In his first campaign rally since Speaker Nancy Pelosi
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/24/us/politics/democrats-impeachment-trump.html}{declared
the formal beginning of an impeachment inquiry} last month, Mr. Trump
was as raw and rancorous as ever, targeting individual Democrats in
highly personal terms that no president has used in public and
presenting himself as a victim of a partisan conspiracy.

``From Day 1, the wretched Washington swamp has been trying to nullify
the results of a truly great and democratic election,'' Mr. Trump told a
crowd of about 20,000 at the Target Center in Minneapolis, one of the
most Democratic cities in the country. ``They want to erase your vote
like it never existed; they want to erase your voice, and they want to
erase your future.''

He fired off insults in rapid succession at F.B.I. agents, lawmakers and
journalists who he said were out to get him. ``She's either really
stupid or she's really lost it --- or maybe there's a certain dishonesty
in there,'' he said of Ms. Pelosi.

Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, who is one of his
favorite targets, is an ``America-hating socialist'' who married her
brother in order to come into the country, he said.
(\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/18/us/politics/trump-ilhan-omar-fact-check.html}{No
proof has emerged} substantiating the marriage claim.)

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

He went local in targeting the city's Democratic mayor, Jacob Frey, who
drew the president's ire this week for seeking reimbursement for the
cost of extra security required for the rally. ``You got a rotten
mayor,'' Mr. Trump said. ``You've got to change your mayor.''

But no Democrat came under as much fire as Mr. Biden, one of the leading
Democrats bidding to challenge him next year. It was Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/25/us/politics/ukraine-transcript-trump.html}{efforts
to pressure Ukraine's president} to come up with damaging information
about Mr. Biden that prompted the House impeachment inquiry that now
threatens his presidency.

Mr. Trump maintained he was interested only in uncovering supposed
corruption by the former vice president and his younger son, Hunter
Biden, who made \$50,000 a month serving on the board of a Ukrainian
energy company at the same time his father was working on Ukraine policy
for the Obama administration.

In scathing terms, Mr. Trump mocked Hunter Biden, who struggled for
years with alcohol and drug abuse and was discharged from the Navy
Reserve after failing a drug test. Calling him unqualified for the
energy company post, Mr. Trump declared that Hunter Biden was ``not too
smart'' and added, ``Hunter, you're a loser.''

He noted that Hunter Biden had been out of the public spotlight in the
past couple of weeks as the president and his supporters have sought to
make him a political liability for the former vice president.

``Whatever happened to Hunter?'' Mr. Trump demanded. ``Where the hell is
he? Where's Hunter?'' Turning to a group of supporters, the president
said, ``Hey, fellas, I have an idea for a new T-shirt.'' It should say,
``Where's Hunter?'' he added.

Mr. Trump was proudly on offense all night, cheerfully using the word
``hell'' repeatedly while mocking those who say he should watch his
language. ``I'm energized,'' he told the crowd.

At another point, he reveled in his ad hoc blasts at his enemies.
``Isn't it much better when I go off script?'' he asked.

The rally, the first of three in the next week, came on a day of rapidly
advancing developments in the impeachment inquiry and related matters.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/rick-perry-subpoena.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Energy
Secretary Rick Perry was subpoenaed} on Thursday for records that could
shed light on any role he may have played in Mr. Trump's attempts to
pressure the Ukrainian government. Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman, two of
associates of Mr. Trump's personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/lev-parnas-igor-fruman-arrested-giuliani.html?module=inline}{were
indicted on campaign finance charges}.

And Mr. Trump told reporters that the man
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/09/us/politics/trey-gowdy-trump-legal-team.html}{just
announced as his outside counsel}, Trey Gowdy, could not start in that
position until January because of ``lobbying rules,'' even as House
Democrats hope to have an impeachment vote wrapped up by the holidays.

Despite the fast-moving inquiry unfolding in Washington, Mr. Trump
showed that he, too, was barreling forward in his re-election campaign,
using impeachment as fuel to energize his hard-core supporters while
trying to expand the electoral map.

This time, his campaign is pouring resources into a state with the hopes
of putting Democrats on defense and projecting confidence that they have
more paths to re-election than simply recreating the winning map from
2016. Mr. Trump lost Minnesota by 1.5 percentage points to Hillary
Clinton in 2016, despite having no campaign staff on the ground and
barely setting foot in the state.

``We are going to win this state,'' Mr. Trump said as he took the stage
Thursday night. ``This feels like the day before the election.''

The president's decision to visit Ms. Omar's backyard was also a show of
confidence, challenging a local congresswoman in her home state.

``How do you have such a person representing you in Minnesota?'' he
asked the crowd, calling her one of the ``big reasons'' that he would
win re-election.

He bemoaned the fact that so many Somali refugees had been allowed to
resettle in Minnesota and boasted that he had closed the door to many
foreigners seeking protection in the United States. ``I have reduced
refugee resettlement by 85 percent,'' he said.

Outside the Target Center, Trump protesters clashed with Trump
supporters, their shouting and cursing escalating as the president took
the stage. Many said the longtime Democratic state suddenly felt like a
battleground, and strangers approached each other to pick fights.

``Tell me why you like him,'' one man yelled at a nearby Trump
supporter.

Criticized by another protester for the president's white supremacist
undertones, the Trump supporter replied, ``I could have 100 black people
with me if I wanted to.''

Cameron Russell, 26, of Minneapolis, a donor support technician who is
black, voiced his skepticism: ``Yo, man --- pull them up. Call them
up.''

Then Mr. Russell recognized the Trump supporter, who is white, as a high
school classmate.

``I thought you were cool,'' Mr. Russell said to him.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
