Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Barr Clashes With House
Democrats, Defending Responses to Protests and Russia Inquiry

\url{https://nyti.ms/39AjmoQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{barr-clashes-with-house-democrats-defending-responses-to-protests-and-russia-inquiry}{%
\section{Barr Clashes With House Democrats, Defending Responses to
Protests and Russia
Inquiry}\label{barr-clashes-with-house-democrats-defending-responses-to-protests-and-russia-inquiry}}

The deployment of federal agents to confront protesters and rioters and
attacks on the Russia investigation highlighted a contentious hearing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28dc-barr1/merlin_175037451_6440ff51-e1c6-45f2-9f62-481f1775936b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-charlie-savage/author-charlie-savage-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie
Savage}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Attorney General William P. Barr vigorously defended the federal
response to nationwide protests and civil unrest in a combative
congressional hearing on Tuesday where Democrats accused him and other
Trump administration officials of suppressing protesters' rights in an
overly violent crackdown.

The attorney general also insisted that he intervened in the criminal
cases of President Trump's allies Roger J. Stone Jr. and Michael T.
Flynn to uphold the rule of law, not to do Mr. Trump's bidding.

Mr. Barr's defenses punctuated an outright hostile election-season
oversight hearing before the House Judiciary Committee. Democrats tried
to portray him as a dangerous errand boy for the president. But Mr. Barr
insisted he was trying to enforce the law against what he characterized
as rioters using demonstrations as cover to commit crimes. He also said
of the criminal cases that grew out of the Russia investigation that he
wanted to be fair to Mr. Trump's former advisers.

``The president's friends don't deserve special breaks, but they also
don't deserve to be treated more harshly than other people,'' he said.
``And sometimes that's a difficult decision to make, especially when you
know you're going to be castigated for it.''

The five-hour hearing, Mr. Barr's first on Capitol Hill in more than a
year, grew increasingly heated as Democrats spoke over his attempts to
respond to their accusations. At one point, the attorney general
exclaimed, ``I'm going to answer the damn question.''

Democrats were clearly angered as Mr. Barr quibbled over small details
or ignored questions about his rationale or actions. But amid frequent
sniping, lawmakers came away with few, if any, new facts or admissions.

Democrats have sought to hold Mr. Barr to account since he presented a
summary last year of the then-secret findings of the special counsel,
Robert S. Mueller III, that a federal judge later said was ``distorted''
and ``misleading'' in a way that torqued public understanding of its
findings in Mr. Trump's favor.

But Mr. Barr --- who did not testify before the House Judiciary
Committee when he was attorney general the first time, under President
George Bush --- had repeatedly put off requests to appear before the
committee, saying he was too busy. In the meantime, lawmakers
accumulated a long list of additional grievances that they aired on
Tuesday.

``You have aided and abetted the worst failings of the president,''
Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the committee chairman, said
at the start of the hearing to Mr. Barr, who sat impassively.

Democrats charged that Mr. Barr had intervened improperly in the Stone
and Flynn cases to please Mr. Trump. They accused him of helping the
president promulgate bogus fears about voter fraud to help shake
confidence in November's election. And they warned that under Mr. Barr's
leadership, the Justice Department was trampling on the civil liberties
of citizens like those demanding that the nation eradicate
institutionalized racism against Black Americans.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``The president wants footage for his campaign ads, and you appear to be
serving it up to him as ordered,'' Mr. Nadler said. ``You are projecting
fear and violence nationwide in pursuit of obvious political objectives.
Shame on you, Mr. Barr.''

The attorney general denied the charges, arguing at first calmly and
then more irritably that federal agents confronting protesters were not
trying to quash peaceful expressions of free speech, but to deal with
``mob'' violence.

``Rioters and anarchists have hijacked legitimate protests to wreak
senseless havoc and destruction on innocent victims,'' he said.

In particular, he defended the deployment of federal agents in Portland,
Ore., accusing the local police of essentially abandoning a federal
courthouse as rioters and vandals ``laid siege'' to it, threatening the
functioning of the court system.

``What unfolds nightly around the courthouse cannot reasonably be called
protests,'' Mr. Barr said. ``It is by any objective measure an assault
on the government of the United States.''

Local officials
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/portland-protests-explained-protesters.html}{have
accused federal agents of being heavy-handed and said} their presence
reinvigorated tensions that had been subsiding.

While some protesters have been violent,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/us/portland-protests.html}{many
others}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/protests-divisions-blm.html}{have
been peaceful} and have included high school students, military
veterans, off-duty lawyers and lines of mothers who call themselves the
``Wall of Moms.'' Video shows that in some cases, agents attacked
protesters when there was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/100000007243995/portland-protests-federal-government.html?action=click\&gtype=vhs\&version=vhs-heading\&module=vhs\&region=title-area\&cview=true\&t=4}{no
apparent threat}, including the case of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/portland-protests-navy-christopher-david.html}{a
Navy veteran whose hands} were smashed by officers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28dc-barr2/merlin_174932796_b8b067b7-3f2b-46ba-96e6-30a5a74e8eb1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Barr likewise defended the federal response to protests last month
at Lafayette Square outside the White House, where law enforcement used
pepper balls and smoke bombs to clear the area before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/02/us/politics/trump-walk-lafayette-square.html}{Mr.
Trump walked through to take a photograph} in front of a nearby church.
Mr. Barr said officials had reached a ``consensus'' that a protective
perimeter outside the White House had to be extended because they wanted
to prevent the vandalism of previous nights.

``Do you think the response at Lafayette Square to tear gas, pepper
spray and beat protesters and injure American citizens who were just
simply exercising their First Amendment rights was appropriate?'' asked
Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington.

Mr. Barr responded that ``no tear gas was used'' on the protesters but
did not address the substance of the question. The United States Park
Police has
\href{https://www.nps.gov/subjects/uspp/6_2_20_statement_from_acting_chief_monahan.htm}{confirmed}
``the use of smoke canisters and pepper balls.''

The Justice Department's independent inspector general is investigating
the actions of federal agents during the episode.

Asked about the pleas for racial justice informing many of the protests,
Mr. Barr said, ``I don't agree that there is systemic racism in police
departments generally in this country,'' and he quoted statistics that
more white Americans had been killed by the police than Black Americans.

Critics have called those figures misleading because they do not account
for relative population differences; a Black person is more likely to be
killed than a white person.

Republicans backed the attorney general for showing ``courage'' by
taking aim at the Russia investigation and attacks on the police.

Their most visceral defense came in a five-minute
\href{https://twitter.com/JudiciaryGOP/status/1288140402101555201}{video
montage} that appeared to show protesters or people infiltrating their
ranks turning to violence. It began with footage of cable news anchors
describing the protests as ``peaceful'' before streaming through scenes
like a police precinct being set ablaze in Minneapolis, American flags
burning, cans being hurled at the police and stores being looted.

``I want to thank you for defending law enforcement, for pointing out
what a crazy idea this defund-the-police policy, whatever you want to
call it, is, and standing up for the rule of law,'' Representative Jim
Jordan of Ohio, the panel's top Republican, told Mr. Barr before playing
the video.

Republicans cheered on Mr. Barr as he defended his decision to overrule
career prosecutors in the Stone case, saying that they were trying to
treat Mr. Stone more harshly than other defendants. The Judiciary
Committee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/us/politics/roger-stone-sentencing-politicized.html}{heard
testimony from one of the prosecutors last month} who accused department
leaders of changing the sentencing recommendation for ``political
reasons.''

``The line prosecutors were trying to advocate for a sentence that was
more than twice what anyone else in a similar position had ever
served,'' Mr. Barr said. ``This is a 67-year-old man, first-time
offender, no violence, and they were trying to put him in jail for seven
to nine years. I was not going to advocate that. Because that is not the
rule of law.''

But the prosecutors said in court that they arrived at the
seven-to-nine-year recommendation by following the Justice Department's
own sentencing guidelines, as is customary in any federal criminal case.
Questioned by the federal judge who oversaw the Stone case, department
officials acknowledged that it was the policy of the United States
attorney's office in Washington to seek the harshest possible sentence
under the sentencing guidelines and to let the judge decide whether it
was warranted.

Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, later asked Mr. Barr
repeatedly if he would point to any other case where the department had
failed to recommended a punishment in line with the guidelines set out
for a defendant like Mr. Stone, who had threatened a witness.

Mr. Barr did not answer directly, insisting that ``the judge agreed with
me'' because she gave Mr. Stone a lighter sentence than the prosecution
team had recommended before he overruled them. Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-roger-stone-clemency.html}{commuted
Mr. Stone's sentence} this month.

Asked about the criminal prosecutor, John H. Durham, reviewing the
Russia investigation, Mr. Barr declined to commit to waiting until after
the general election in November to release any report that Mr. Durham
produced. Mr. Barr repeated his view that Justice Department policy
against taking actions that could affect elections should apply to Mr.
Durham's work.

Image

Lawmakers, Mr. Barr and spectators practiced social distancing at the
hearing.Credit...Pool photo by Chip Somodevilla

Democrats also pressed Mr. Barr to justify his repeated warnings about
the risk of increased mail-in balloting in the upcoming election because
of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{coronavirus
pandemic}. After Mr. Trump attacked such efforts and claimed that
mail-in ballots would be used for fraud to rig the election against him
--- even though he himself has voted by mail --- Mr. Barr suggested
without evidence, including in interviews with
\href{https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__www.nytimes.com_2020_06_01_magazine_william-2Dbarr-2Dattorney-2Dgeneral.html\&d=DwMFaQ\&c=jGUuvAdBXp_VqQ6t0yah2g\&r=bVVNPs8-wzWySU1LPjQH-giyvd3jgwNM5mI4gec0ZVgkgSksNhhps0rPEeN63Yaq\&m=Wj_rdThk_pA73T0byJFaMQwQ5zUDujOvP2xsA8g0eD0\&s=QDYgELfVpfZGzQjB_QxaqbPpm_pO8hwJpUsg1kpaEgg\&e=}{The
New York Times} and
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/transcript/exclusive-maria-bartiromo-interviews-ag-barr-on-police-reform-big-tech-censorship-durham-investigation}{Fox
News}, that there was a serious risk of foreign countries
mass-counterfeiting ballots.

Experts say that a foreign-sponsored plot to systematically
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-vote-fraud-ballot.html}{tamper
with ballots is nearly impossible} because of how they are printed and
tracked. Many states have conducted elections by mail for years without
any major security problems or widespread fraud.

Representative Cedric L. Richmond, Democrat of Louisiana, asked Mr. Barr
whether he believed the presidential election would be rigged. The
attorney general said he had no reason to think it would be, but then
added, ``If you have wholesale mail-in voting, it substantially
increases the risk of fraud.''

For all the grab-bag of policy issues raised by the questioning, the
exchanges proved to be more heated than illuminating. At one point, Mr.
Jordan --- who is known for his bombastic style of questioning witnesses
--- complained that Democrats were talking over Mr. Barr.

``For months you have tried to get the attorney general to come,'' Mr.
Jordan interjected. ``He is here. Why don't you let him speak?''

``The gentleman's rudeness is not recognized,'' Mr. Nadler replied,
trying to move on to the next lawmaker in line to question Mr. Barr.

``Rudeness? Rudeness? Rudeness?'' Mr. Jordan shot back. ``Time after
time, you refuse to let the attorney general answer the questions posed
to him.''

Sharon LaFraniere and Linda Qiu contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
