Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`I Just Don't Get It':
Republicans Balk at Funding F.B.I. Building in Virus Bill

\href{https://nyti.ms/2P6atdm}{https://nyti.ms/2P6atdm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{i-just-dont-get-it-republicans-balk-at-funding-fbi-building-in-virus-bill}{%
\section{`I Just Don't Get It': Republicans Balk at Funding F.B.I.
Building in Virus
Bill}\label{i-just-dont-get-it-republicans-balk-at-funding-fbi-building-in-virus-bill}}

Another chapter in President Trump's quest to shape the future of the J.
Edgar Hoover Building seemed over as Republicans distanced themselves
from the administration's \$1.75 billion demand.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28dc-fbibuilding/merlin_170583513_c37ef2fb-df6d-4722-a4e1-fef9da1ffe8f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-katie-rogers/author-katie-rogers-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{Katie
Rogers} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate majority leader,
\href{https://twitter.com/NBCNews/status/1288150687109599232?s=20}{looked
startled} on Monday when first asked why Republicans had agreed to a
White House demand that \$1.75 billion for a new F.B.I. building be
tucked into their emergency coronavirus relief bill.

Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the chairman of the Appropriations
Committee, framed the item as a Trump administration priority, not a
Republican one. Other Republicans were more blunt.

``I don't know --- that makes no sense to me'' said Senator Lindsey
Graham of South Carolina, a close ally of President Trump's. ``I'd be
fine, OK, with stripping it out.''

By Tuesday afternoon, another chapter in Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/02/us/politics/fbi-building-costs.html}{long,
strange and, to his critics, ethically questionable} odyssey to
personally shape the future of the J. Edgar Hoover Building seemed
headed to a close as Republicans distanced themselves from key elements
of their own coronavirus relief bill.

Senate leaders went so far as to say they hoped the administration's bid
to fund the construction of a new F.B.I. building would ultimately be
discarded from a final agreement, with Mr. McConnell backing away from
the idea, calling that provision, along with some others proposed by
Democrats, ``non-germane.''

It was the latest evidence of the disarray around attempts by
Republicans to come to a common position as they enter talks with
Democrats on another round of federal aid to deal with the economic
devastation of the pandemic.

And it highlighted how the White House and Republicans have injected
unrelated priorities dear to Mr. Trump into a negotiation that was
already going to be complicated and intense. Republicans are also
pressing to use the package to provide more than \$1 billion for the
Pentagon to restore projects that Mr. Trump defunded to help pay for his
wall along the southern border.

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, and Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin continued negotiations with Democrats led by Speaker
Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday, seeking agreement on a package that can pass
both the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-controlled
House and win Mr. Trump's signature. One key component of the earlier
relief package, expanded unemployment benefits, is scheduled to expire
at the end of the week, adding to the urgency of the talks.

With so much at stake, Mr. Trump's own party seemed to draw a line at
the proposal for the F.B.I. building. Mr. Shelby questioned whether it
was an urgent priority at a time when Americans are struggling to
weather a deadly pandemic and a recession.

``It's needed,'' Mr. Shelby said. ``The question is, is it needed now?''

In recent days, Mr. Meadows had pushed the plan to replace the building,
which is crumbling, out of date --- and long the subject an unusual
fixation for Mr. Trump, a former real estate developer.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T10:03:05.885Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

As far back as 2013, two years before launching his candidacy, Mr. Trump
expressed his interest in the property, located on Pennsylvania Avenue a
block from the location of what would become the Trump International
Hotel. At that time, the F.B.I. building was the subject of a
long-debated plan that would allow the demolition of the existing
structure and clear the way for commercial development of that location,
allowing the chosen developer to construct an F.B.I. facility in the
Washington suburbs.

An executive at his company later expressed concern that the
redevelopment project could create competition for Mr. Trump's hotel.
After Mr. Trump took office, his administration blocked a plan to move
the building to a suburban campus, then unveiled another that would keep
the building where it is, raising questions about whether he was seeking
to protect his hotel from the possibility of a rival being built on the
site.

His actions triggered an ongoing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/03/us/politics/fbi-headquarters-inspector-general-investigation.html}{inquiry
by the Justice Department's inspector general} and brought scrutiny by
Democrats on Capitol Hill.

When asked last week why the provision was holding up negotiations among
Republicans, Mr. Trump told reporters that he wanted to keep the
building close to the Justice Department across the street.

``You can renovate the existing building, but it's not a good
building,'' Mr. Trump said. ``Or you could take it down and build a
great building for the F.B.I. for 100 years and have it be incredible.''

A senior administration official familiar with the White House's
negotiation strategy said on Tuesday that Mr. Meadows and Mr. Mnuchin
were treating the building provision as a potential bargaining chip to
use later in negotiations with Democrats. Senate Republicans want to
hold the package to around \$1 trillion, while the Democrats are pushing
a \$3 trillion bill that would extend the \$600 weekly enhanced jobless
payments through the end of the year, send \$1 trillion to struggling
state and local governments, and provide \$3.6 billion for election
assistance.

It is unclear how much leverage such a universally unpopular proposal
would have provided Republicans, who are seeking to counter the
Democratic plan by slashing the extra unemployment payments and have
omitted funding for state and local governments as well as money to help
states carry out the general election amid the pandemic. Both proposals
would send another round of \$1,200 direct payments to many Americans.

An official familiar with the negotiations said that Republican
senators, mindful that it had already taken days to reach consensus
among themselves on an opening bid, ultimately stopped resisting the
administration's insistence on including the F.B.I. provision in order
to move on to what are expected to be much more fraught negotiations
with Democrats, who have been publicly united behind their proposal
since May.

A chorus of Republican lawmakers said they were bemused by the demand
for the F.B.I. building, particularly given the amount of energy that
they had spent hammering Democrats for including items they deemed
unrelated to the coronavirus in their opening offer.

``I just don't get it --- how is it tied to coronavirus?'' said Senator
Rick Scott, Republican of Florida. ``I never understood why you're
giving money to the Kennedy Center or National Endowment for the Arts.
During a pandemic, let's focus on solving the problem.''

Senator Mike Braun, Republican of Indiana, was also left bewildered.

``Even if the White House wanted it, I'd be against it because that's
certainly not necessary,'' Mr. Braun told reporters.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For some Republicans, it was just another aspect of a proposal they
regarded as deeply flawed.

``I'm not inclined to support it now --- it's a mess,'' said Senator
Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, said of his party's plan. ``I can't
figure out what this bill is about. I don't know what we're trying to
accomplish with it.''

Mr. Mnuchin's negotiation skills
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/politics/coronavirus-mnuchin-republicans.html}{have
drawn skepticism} from some Republicans, who have fretted privately that
he has been too open to making concessions to Democrats in earlier
rounds of pandemic aid talks. Asked on Tuesday if the money should
remain in the legislation, Mr. Mnuchin told reporters, ``We'll look at
everything in the bill.''

Mr. Meadows, the former congressman from North Carolina and co-founder
of the ultraconservative Freedom Caucus, is known for just the opposite:
He spent his years in the House opposing large spending deals of the
kind now under discussion, and urging ideological confrontation. In late
2018, he encouraged Mr. Trump to refuse to sign any government spending
bill that didn't fund the border wall, stoking a stalemate that led to
the most prolonged government shutdown in American history.

``There are a number of things in the last bill that had nothing to do
with the coronavirus,'' Mr. Meadows told reporters on Tuesday. ``I think
everybody acknowledges that it's a funding mechanism. And I don't see it
standing in the way of us getting a deal.''

After meeting with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority
leader, Mr. Meadows and Mr. Mnuchin for a second consecutive day on
Tuesday afternoon, Ms. Pelosi said they were ``airing our differences.
There's discovery of where there might be opportunity or not.''

The White House has again declined to say exactly why the F.B.I.
building is a priority in the middle of coronavirus relief negotiations.

``As President Trump has said, the F.B.I. desperately needs a new
building and this measure provides critical funding for this project
that would keep the building responsibly near the Department of
Justice,'' Judd Deere, a White House spokesman, said in a statement.

But Democrats have long charged that Mr. Trump intervened to make sure
the site was not redeveloped with a project that would compete with his
company's luxury hotel across the street.

``It's outrageous,'' said Senator Ben Cardin, Democrat of Maryland.
``This has not been a partisan issue. This is a personal issue for the
president.''

Among the very few people in Washington with nothing public to say on
the matter on Tuesday were officials from the General Services
Administration, which handles real estate for the federal government.
And the F.B.I. shared a statement attributed to an unnamed official, who
said, ``the need for a new F.B.I. headquarters facility has not
abated.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
