Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Faces Pressure From
Left Over Influence Industry Ties

\url{https://nyti.ms/33itJN4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-faces-pressure-from-left-over-influence-industry-ties}{%
\section{Biden Faces Pressure From Left Over Influence Industry
Ties}\label{biden-faces-pressure-from-left-over-influence-industry-ties}}

Many of his aides and close allies are veteran Washington hands who have
profited from advising big corporations. The Sanders-Warren wing of the
party is not happy.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/us/01dc-biden-lobby1/01dc-biden-lobby1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth
P. Vogel} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn Thrush}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2020, 12:54 p.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- It was one of the few issues on which President Barack
Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. disagreed --- how far to go
in limiting the influence of lobbyists in government.

The vice president privately complained that his boss's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/01/22/us/politics/22obama.html}{effort
to slam shut the revolving door} between K Street and the administration
would deprive it of experienced talent, and he bristled when Mr. Obama's
aides tried to block him from hiring a well-connected Washington
operator who had lobbied for pharmaceutical and insurance companies,
credit agencies and others.

Eight years later, that same confidant, Steve Ricchetti, is helping to
run Mr. Biden's presidential campaign. Also involved to varying degrees
are other advisers, operatives, fund-raisers and allies with deep
connections to Washington's lucrative lobbying, communications and
strategic consulting industry.

That puts Mr. Biden at odds with powerful elements of his party's
liberal base. Increasingly, they are expressing concern that the
military contractors, Wall Street banks and other major corporations
that paid members of Mr. Biden's inner circle while they were out of
government could hold disproportionate power in a Biden administration.

Politically, it could limit Mr. Biden's ability to cast himself as the
antidote to the anything-goes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/26/us/politics/trump-recording-donors.html}{access
peddling} that has proliferated in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/18/climate/trump-cabinet-lobbyists.html}{President
Trump's administration}. Under Mr. Trump, lobbyists and campaign donors
have not only enjoyed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/us/politics/trump-lobbyists-swamp-campaign.html}{access
to the highest levels of the administration}, but have been tapped to
lead cabinet departments and have exerted remarkable influence over
policies of intense interest to their former employers.

``It's worrisome, broadly speaking, that a Biden administration could
end up abiding by the unfortunate bipartisan norms of putting people in
posts where they oversee industries or employers they just left,'' said
David Segal, co-founder of the liberal group Demand Progress.

His organization was among those that
\href{https://therevolvingdoorproject.org/to-rebuild-public-trust-close-the-revolving-door/}{sent
a letter} to the Biden and Trump campaigns this week asking them not to
appoint anyone to senior administration positions overseeing interests
they served in the private sector. The letter called out Mr. Trump's
administration for taking that dynamic ``to new extremes,'' but Mr.
Segal added that Mr. Biden's orbit includes ``some folks with troubling
track records.''

Mr. Biden has pledged to, if elected,
``\href{https://joebiden.com/governmentreform/}{expand on and codify}''
the Obama administration
\href{https://www.oge.gov/web/oge.nsf/Executive\%20Orders/A70F962587DAC28F85257E96006A90F2/$FILE/23a5e4eeaffd4e14b4387b40b0eae5963.pdf?open}{lobbying
executive order} --- the same policy he had privately complained about.
That plan barred lobbyists from going to work for agencies they had
tried to influence within the previous two years, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/01/22/us/politics/22obama.html}{barred
departing officials from lobbying} until the end of the administration.

With scrutiny intensifying, some Biden allies are now distancing
themselves from their corporate work to better position themselves for
official roles with the campaign, transition team or in a potential
Biden administration.

Andrew Bates, a spokesman for Mr. Biden's campaign, said the former vice
president's ethics proposal would be ``the most ambitious'' of ``any
administration in American history.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Bates said Mr. Biden was ``deeply proud'' of the ethics policies
enacted in the Obama administration, and of his work in the Senate
before that ``to curtail the influence of lobbyists, money and special
interests in government.''

But after eight years as vice president and decades in the Senate, Mr.
Biden maintains extensive ties to Washington's permanent political class
of policy and political experts who move between government and private
sector positions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/us/politics/01dc-biden-lobby2/01dc-biden-lobby2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Ricchetti spent years as a registered lobbyist, and through a
company called
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/7010940-Biden-s-Campaign-Chairman-Formed-a-Consulting.html}{Ricchetti
Consulting Group}, is being paid by both
\href{https://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/fecimg/?202007209260662530}{the
Biden campaign} and AT\&T, his only corporate client over the last nine
years. Anita Dunn, Mr. Biden's chief campaign strategist, was also still
doing work for AT\&T last month.

As of Saturday Ms. Dunn is taking ``an official leave'' from her firm,
which had been paid millions in recent years to help an airline advocacy
group, while also providing communications advice to an
\href{https://www.fastcompany.com/90326297/despite-ban-on-spyware-ads-google-allows-ad-blitz-by-hacking-firm-nso-group}{Israeli
spyware firm} and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/30/business/carlos-ghosn-nissan.html}{fugitive
Nissan executive Carlos Ghosn}, for whom the firm
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=55E9C7ED-A93B-4EAE-89BD-EEDE67B2C6DC\&filingTypeID=71}{had
been registered to lobby}. It ended all those client relationships in
the past year.

A leading candidate to become defense secretary,
\href{https://secure.joebiden.com/onlineactions/D4_IIHrm0UuSIFTqaXIRbg2?attr=100631128\&fbclid=IwAR28X8O4TQiVQ3h8k8NW6tTZP4JhoiaR0mVS8N0w3N0tzyKalfFUw4sraaQ}{Michèle
A. Flournoy}, started a firm whose
\href{http://westexec.com/\#about}{website} lists work for financial
services, technology and pharmaceutical companies. The former C.I.A. and
Obama national security official
\href{https://secure.joebiden.com/onlineactions/-SChB7ieakavs37tU3NAZA2?attr=100631128\&fbclid=IwAR2_qh2WkEzd-Oj-GXwD-kFly0zIfeQe1wgZdkBrOWexdi06sy11yqQiNqs}{Avril
Haines}, who consulted for the data-mining company Palantir, on Saturday
resigned from Ms. Flournoy's firm to begin work on Mr. Biden's
transition team.

None of these advisers are registered as lobbyists, reflecting a trend
in which major corporate and foreign players hire former officials as
consultants, or as legal counsel, allowing them to use their connections
and expertise, while avoiding the notoriety and disclosure requirements
that come with formal lobbying. This phenomenon was exacerbated by Mr.
Obama's lobbying policy

Mr. Biden's more liberal challengers for the Democratic presidential
nomination, Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of
Massachusetts, both campaigned against K Street, in part, to
differentiate themselves from the candidate they now support.

Ms. Warren
\href{https://medium.com/@teamwarren/my-plan-to-end-washington-corruption-554c7f01aaa5}{proposed}
a plan that would expand the definition of lobbying to include
consultants and lawyers who try to influence government, while barring
corporate lobbyists from joining the government for six years.
Supporters of Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/30/joe-biden-bernie-sanders-convention-389226}{are
pushing Mr. Biden's team to go further} than he has on those issues.

Mr. Ricchetti --- a self-effacing fixer likely to occupy a top position
if Mr. Biden is elected --- personifies the prevalence of influence
industry veterans in Mr. Biden's orbit that concerns progressives.

He rose to prominence as a liaison to the Senate under President Bill
Clinton. He left the White House in 1995 and opened a lobbying shop
where he specialized in health care, with a goal, a person close to him
said, of getting back into government once he had set up his family
financially.

He was recruited to return to the White House in 1998 by the then-White
House chief of staff, John D. Podesta. Mr. Ricchetti sold his firm to
Mr. Podesta's brother Tony,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/10/us/politics/john-tony-podesta-mueller-russia-investigation.html}{until
recently} one of the town's best-known lobbyists.

In 2001, after Mr. Clinton left office, Mr. Ricchetti opened a new
boutique lobbying firm, Ricchetti Inc.

Image

President Clinton departing the White House with Mr. Ricchetti for a
trip to New York in 2000.Credit...Shawn Thew/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

Within two years, he had compiled a client list that included General
Motors, Experian, the American Hospital Association, AT\&T, Eli Lilly,
Nextel, Novartis, Pfizer and Fannie Mae, the quasi-governmental mortgage
lender whose late entry into the subprime housing market exacerbated the
2008 financial crisis.

When Mr. Ricchetti backed Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign,
aides to her rival for the Democratic nomination, Mr. Obama, seized on
Mr. Ricchetti's \$120,000-a-year contract with General Motors. The Obama
campaign connected his work to an \$8 million earmark Mrs. Clinton
secured for the company's New York operations as a senator, a claim Mr.
Ricchetti has denied.

But Mr. Ricchetti, whose discursive and regular-guy style mirrors Mr.
Biden's, remained persona non grata in the Obama White House even after
he had satisfied the two-year lobbying cooling-off period required by
Mr. Obama's policy. When Mr. Biden settled on Mr. Ricchetti to help run
his office in late 2011, the White House aides Jim Messina and David
Plouffe flatly rejected the idea, according to people close to the
situation.

A short, intense scrap ensued, ending only when Mr. Obama gave into Mr.
Biden's argument that he had the ``right'' to pick his own top deputy,
several former aides recalled.

Mr. Ricchetti was hired and by late 2013 was officially appointed Mr.
Biden's chief of staff. Over the next few years, he essentially took
control of Mr. Biden's post-presidential life, setting up a network of
nonprofits and academic institutions that would serve as a base of
operations, negotiating the former vice president's lucrative book deal,
and, most important, helping to set up the initial structure of the 2020
campaign, according to aides and Biden associates.

While the campaign's internal policy allows consultants like Mr.
Ricchetti to continue receiving outside income from approved sources
like his consulting arrangement with AT\&T, some of Mr. Biden's top
advisers have begun leaving the influence industry to join the campaign,
and possibly a future administration.

Jake Sullivan, who has been helping to develop the Biden campaign's
policy positions and moderating
virtual\href{https://secure.joebiden.com/onlineactions/uss1zC2ZQEyvAQGK-wIhVw2?attr=100631128\&fbclid=IwAR0g9AVpZyY6_2T5hARYM4AKJ9crM1ftzQ7e_ebEB1KxpYvAOG6-d6Huwcc}{}fund-raising\href{https://secure.joebiden.com/onlineactions/rQ8rSBiMhU-jvj_wE2bO0A2?attr=100631128\&fbclid=IwAR2BvgVknJAr9orxEvwJ24qLH_pl1oqZ4itbFMSZj2hSuDZNxO-zJ2Ce-MM}{events},
resigned this year from
a\href{https://prospect.org/world/biden-adviser-jake-sullivan-gig-with-uber/}{job
at the consulting firm Macro Advisory Partners}. At the firm, he had
worked with the ride-hailing company Uber to try to pre-empt an effort
in California to classify the company's drivers as full-time employees.

On Saturday, Antony J. Blinken, a deputy secretary of state in the Obama
administration who is running Mr. Biden's foreign policy operation,
joined the campaign full time and took an unpaid leave of absence from
his role as a managing partner in WestExec Advisors, a firm he
co-founded with Ms. Flournoy.

Aaron Keyak, who
was\href{https://jewishinsider.com/2020/07/biden-campaign-taps-aaron-keyak-to-lead-jewish-outreach/}{named
director of Jewish engagement} for Mr. Biden's campaign last month, took
a leave from his public affairs firm, Bluelight Strategies.

Early in the Trump administration, the firm had been paid
\$10,000-a-month for Mr. Keyak's help waging a public affairs campaign
against the Gulf state of Qatar by Elliott Broidy, a Republican donor
who owns a defense consulting firm. Federal investigators have since
looked into whether
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/us/politics/elliott-broidy-trump.html}{that
campaign violated foreign lobbying laws}, but Mr. Keyak has not been
interviewed by prosecutors, the Biden campaign said.

Some Democrats argue a Biden administration would be wise not to wall
itself off from people with both government and private sector
experience.

``We can't all go to think tanks, or into academia, and you wouldn't
want to fill the government entirely with people who came from ivory
tower institutions that are detached from the mechanics of Washington,''
said James P. Rubin, who had served as a foreign policy adviser to Mr.
Biden in the Senate and then moved to the State Department in the 1990s
before becoming a registered lobbyist.

In an effort to ease potential hurdles to joining a Biden
administration, Mr. Rubin in recent
weeks\href{https://efile.fara.gov/docs/6415-Short-Form-20200609-122.pdf}{terminated
his lobbying registrations} for a range of clients.

Mr. Rubin argued that Mr. Biden's decades of experience in government
meant aides would be less able to shape his worldview, but he
nonetheless contrasted the years of public policy experience inside and
outside government of many Biden advisers to the relatively less
experienced set of advisers around Mr. Trump.

``I'd like to think that now we have to acknowledge that having
expertise is good,'' he said.

Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
