Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}U.S.
Election, Tech in Europe, Coronavirus: Your Friday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PajgLf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-election-tech-in-europe-coronavirus-your-friday-briefing}{%
\section{U.S. Election, Tech in Europe, Coronavirus: Your Friday
Briefing}\label{us-election-tech-in-europe-coronavirus-your-friday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering the toll of the virus on \textbf{England's death rate},
President Trump's \textbf{``delay the election'' tweet}, and Europe's
new push to rein in \textbf{tech giants}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/world/31ambriefing-europe-britain/31ambriefing-europe-britain-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{england-had-the-worst-surge-in-virus-deaths}{%
\subsection{England had the worst surge in virus
deaths}\label{england-had-the-worst-surge-in-virus-deaths}}

A government report released on Thursday found that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/world/europe/UK-deaths-coronavirus-europe.html}{Britain
had the highest rate of excess deaths of any European country} during
the pandemic --- even worse than hard-hit nations like Italy and Spain.

The grim analysis comes as Prime Minister Boris Johnson has put many
other countries under a travel quarantine, highlighting their struggle
to control new infections.

Critics said Mr. Johnson was trying to deflect attention from his
initial sluggish response to the pandemic, which they said had left the
country equally vulnerable to a resurgence.

\textbf{Details:} Mr. Johnson has linked Britain's high death toll to
record-keeping variances among nations. But the statistics office, which
produced the report, said it had avoided those pitfalls by examining
mortality rates across Europe from all causes from January to June and
then comparing them to previous years.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  A new analysis of one of the most mysterious virus outbreaks ---
  aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship early this year ---
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/health/diamond-princess-coronavirus-aerosol.html}{points
  to small, floating droplets as a primary driver of virus
  transmission}. The findings could help make indoor spaces safer.
\item
  Critics of the Chinese government said
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/world/asia/coronavirus-china-quarantine.html}{they
  have been detained in the name of public health}. The coronavirus,
  rights activists say, has given the authorities a new pretext for
  detaining dissidents.
\item
  Herman Cain, who ran for the Republican presidential nomination in
  2012 and was a recent contender for a top Federal Reserve job,
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/herman-cain-dead.html}{died
  of the coronavirus}.
\end{itemize}

Here are
\href{https://nl.nytimes.com/f/newsletter/FAW2T_tCgpcMyKyApW1AiQ~~/AAAAAQA~/RgRhBbpEP0TuaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubnl0aW1lcy5jb20vMjAyMC8wNy8zMC93b3JsZC9jb3JvbmF2aXJ1cy1jb3ZpZC0xOS5odG1sP2NhbXBhaWduX2lkPTcmZW1jPWVkaXRfTUJBRV9wXzIwMjAwNzMwJmluc3RhbmNlX2lkPTIwODM1Jm5sPW1vcm5pbmctYnJpZWZpbmcmcmVnaV9pZD0yNjA5MzM1JnNlY3Rpb249dG9wTmV3cyZzZWdtZW50X2lkPTM0ODI0JnRlPTEmdXNlcl9pZD03YjA1ZjZlZjNiYWIyYTg4Zjg0OGFlMTA3NDcxNDBjOVcDbnl0QgoAKUQ1I18PSP0MUhRzaWRhY2tlckBueXRpbWVzLmNvbVgEAAAAAA~~}{the
latest updates} and
\href{https://nl.nytimes.com/f/a/wa39ai_eHF78RAlaoDMmKw~~/AAAAAQA~/RgRhBbpEP0TwaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubnl0aW1lcy5jb20vaW50ZXJhY3RpdmUvMjAyMC93b3JsZC9jb3JvbmF2aXJ1cy1tYXBzLmh0bWw_Y2FtcGFpZ25faWQ9NyZlbWM9ZWRpdF9NQkFFX3BfMjAyMDA3MzAmaW5zdGFuY2VfaWQ9MjA4MzUmbmw9bW9ybmluZy1icmllZmluZyZyZWdpX2lkPTI2MDkzMzUmc2VjdGlvbj10b3BOZXdzJnNlZ21lbnRfaWQ9MzQ4MjQmdGU9MSZ1c2VyX2lkPTdiMDVmNmVmM2JhYjJhODhmODQ4YWUxMDc0NzE0MGM5VwNueXRCCgApRDUjXw9I_QxSFHNpZGFja2VyQG55dGltZXMuY29tWAQAAAAA}{maps
of the pandemic}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

None of President Trump's allies endorsed his suggestion the the U.S.
elections be delayed.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-economy-worsens-and-trump-suggests-election-delay}{%
\subsection{The economy worsens, and Trump suggests election
delay}\label{the-economy-worsens-and-trump-suggests-election-delay}}

Trailing badly in the polls and facing an economic meltdown, President
Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{suggested
on Thursday that the November election be delayed}, something he has no
authority to order. Only the U.S. Congress can determine the timing of
the election.

The president made the suggestion in a tweet, repeating his false claim
that widespread mail-in voting would result in a ``fraudulent'' result.

\textbf{Context:} Minutes before his tweet, data was released showing
that the G.D.P.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/30/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{fell
9.5 percent during the three months ending June 30 --- the largest
quarterly drop on record}. On Wednesday, the U.S. death toll from the
pandemic reached 150,000, the world's highest. Polls show Mr. Trump
trailing Joe Biden, the former vice president and presumptive Democratic
nominee.

\textbf{The response:} None of Mr. Trump's allies agreed. ``Never in the
history of the country, through wars, depressions and the Civil War,
have we ever not had a federally scheduled election on time,'' Senator
Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said. ``And we'll find a way to do
that again this Nov. 3.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

European officials say that previous actions have not gone far enough in
altering the behavior of Apple, Amazon, Google and
Facebook.Credit...Reuters

\hypertarget{europes-new-tactics-to-limit-tech-giants}{%
\subsection{Europe's new tactics to limit tech
giants}\label{europes-new-tactics-to-limit-tech-giants}}

Europe's lawmakers and regulators have moved to a new stage in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/technology/europe-new-phase-tech-amazon-apple-facebook-google.html}{their
battle to limit the power of the world's biggest tech companies}.
Existing antitrust laws and multibillion-dollar penalties have not gone
far enough, officials say.

Now, the bloc's leaders are pursuing a new law that would make it
illegal for Amazon and Apple to push their products over those sold by
rivals on their online stores.

British officials are working on laws that would make Facebook's
services work more easily with rival social networks and would push
Google to share search data with smaller competitors. And the German
authorities are debating a rule that would let regulators halt certain
business practices at tech companies during an antitrust investigation.

\textbf{Context:} Europe has started its legal blitz just as momentum is
growing in the United States for the authorities there to flex their own
tech regulatory muscles --- a double whammy for tech giants. If the
proposed laws in Europe are enacted, the policies could lead to an
overhaul of the region's digital economy.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 5 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{a-quarter-of-bangladesh-is-now-under-water}{%
\subsection{A quarter of Bangladesh is now under
water}\label{a-quarter-of-bangladesh-is-now-under-water}}

Image

Credit...Mohammad Ponir Hossain/Reuters

Torrential rains have washed away livestock, houses and food stored for
the lean season in Bangladesh. It's the latest calamity to hit the
country, population 165 million, after a cyclone and steadily rising sea
levels. Above, Bogura in mid-July.

And the flooding is expected to worsen. The country's predicament
illustrates a striking inequity of our time: The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html}{people
least responsible for climate change} are often those hurt most by it.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Poland:} European Union officials said they would
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/world/europe/LGBT-free-poland-EU-funds.html}{cut
funding to six towns} that had declared themselves ``L.G.B.T.-free.''
While the funding that would be withheld is modest, the exclusion of the
towns was intended to have a deeper symbolic resonance.

\textbf{Premier League:} Saudi Arabia's sovereign wealth fund
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/soccer/saudi-arabia-newcastle-united.html}{withdrew
its bid for Newcastle United} on Thursday after human rights groups
brought significant pressure on the league to block the sale.

\textbf{FIFA:} A federal prosecutor in Switzerland said on Thursday that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/sports/soccer/fifa-gianni-infantino-investigation.html}{he
had opened a criminal investigation into Gianni Infantino}, FIFA's
president, after concluding that there were ``indications of criminal
conduct'' when he met with an official investigating soccer corruption.

Image

Credit...Joe Skipper/Reuters

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, NASA's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/science/nasa-mars-launch.html}{Perseverance
rover blasting off from Cape Canaveral, Fla.}, on Thursday. The
spacecraft is the third to head to Mars this month.

\textbf{What we're unwinding with:} This
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M-8FvC3GD8c}{quick office-break
yoga video} from Yoga With Adriene. ``Even if you're not in the office,
it's easy to get caught up in your work without remembering to take
breaks. This helped me feel less mushy!'' writes Melina Delkic, on the
briefings team.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Melissa Clark/The New York Times

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/dining/watermelon-salad-recipe.html}{watermelon
salad} is a refreshing dish that can be made with pickled chiles for a
tangy-sweet taste.

\textbf{Read:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/books/review/eat-the-buddha-barbara-demick.html}{``Eat
the Buddha,''} an eye-opening work by Barbara Demick, the former Beijing
bureau chief of The Los Angeles Times, chronicles the history of Tibetan
resistance to Chinese domination.

\textbf{Do:} A new study shows that eating a diet high in sugar and
processed foods can dent our long-term health in part by changing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/well/move/blood-sugar-diet-foods-workouts-exercise-muscles.html}{how
well our bodies respond to exercise.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{theater-for-beginners-and-below}{%
\subsection{Theater for beginners, and
below}\label{theater-for-beginners-and-below}}

\emph{Alexis Soloski, a theater critic, missed going to shows so much
that she enrolled in online classes to see if she could develop her
theater skills at home. She spent two weeks in a homemade theater
training program. Here's an}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/theater/theater-classes-at-home.html}{\emph{excerpt
from her essay about it}}\emph{.}

I started with vocal work, arranging a voice lesson via Broadway Plus, a
concierge service that used to arrange V.I.P. access to Broadway
performances and has since pivoted to online meet-and-greets and private
lessons.

After polling friends about a good song for a nice lady with a
Playbill-slim range and a shaky grasp of pitch, I picked ``Sonya
Alone,'' from
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/15/theater/natasha-pierre-and-the-great-comet-of-1812-review.html}{Natasha,
Pierre \& the Great Comet of 1812}.'' I rehearsed when I could --- in
the shower, cooking dinner, under my breath at various playgrounds. By
the time the lesson came around, I had it down.

Though I once won a limbo contest at a classmate's bar mitzvah, dance
has also never been my thing. Still, I figured that Beginner Theater
Dance, which I signed up for through Ailey Extension, couldn't be so
hard. I figured wrong.

Image

Clockwise from top left: Joseph Travers, a combat instructor; Jo Mei,
who works with actors on their technique; Tera-Lee Pollin, a dance
instructor; and Jimonn Cole, an acting trainer focusing on classical
speech.Credit...Joseph Travers; Sara Krulwich/The New York Times;
Tera-Lee Pollin; Sara Krulwich/The New York Times

We warmed up to selections from ``The Lion King'' and ``The Prince of
Egypt.'' I even learned a Fosse hip roll. But as we danced to ``No Day
but Today,'' the ``Rent'' finale, the ballet terms --- passé, coupé,
rond de jambe --- proliferated and the eight counts came worryingly
fast. Though I had positioned my laptop camera so that it showed me only
from the rib cage up, I couldn't even fake the arms.

Maybe that's because, as I soon learned, a level exists even below
Beginner. That level is Basic. So am I. The following week, I tried
Steps on Broadway's Basic Theater Dance.

The instructor, Tera-Lee Pollin, a Broadway veteran with inhuman
exuberance, guided a handful of students through ``Waterloo,'' the
curtain number for ``Mamma Mia!'' and a song about defeat. Together,
delightedly, we ponied, we swam, we grapevined. No jambes were ronded.

So, yes, any amateur with enough time and resilience and discretionary
income can probably learn theater basics remotely. The alchemy of live
acting before a live audience almost comes through onscreen --- but not
quite. Until it can, I will think of the thousands and thousands of
people in their homes, practicing their pentameter, arabesques and key
changes, waiting for curtains to rise.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. A meditation to
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qA9DrMM41Fk}{de-stress from the
week}. Have a good weekend.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Melissa Clark for the recipe, and to Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh
for the rest of the break from the news. You can reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is on a congressional grilling of Big Tech
executives.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: Groanworthy, as a joke (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• Ruth Graham, most recently at Slate, is
\href{https://www.nytco.com/press/ruth-graham-to-join-national/}{joining
our National desk to cover religion}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
