Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Fed Officials Said
the Economy Needed More Help From Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FFvKZS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273caf40-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273caf41-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273caf42-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273caf43-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273cd650-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=273cd651-e387-11ea-91a7-0b74cd12f276}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fed-officials-said-the-economy-needed-more-help-from-congress}{%
\section{Fed Officials Said the Economy Needed More Help From
Congress}\label{fed-officials-said-the-economy-needed-more-help-from-congress}}

Minutes from the Federal Reserve's July meeting show that some officials
fretted as expanded unemployment insurance ran out.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19DC-Fed/merlin_171561336_fd96d5ef-766e-4fbd-a080-165e58503eb6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/03/reader-center/author-jeanna-smialek/author-jeanna-smialek-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna
Smialek}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Federal Reserve officials emphasized the need for ongoing
economic support in late July as the coronavirus pandemic dragged on,
keeping millions of workers at home and threatening U.S. growth.

``Uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook remained very elevated,
with the path of the economy highly dependent on the course of the virus
and the public sector's response to it,'' minutes from the central
bank's
\href{https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/fomccalendars.htm}{July
28-29 meeting} showed.

The Fed's meeting came as virus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{staged
a resurgence}, one that has since leveled off, and before the July labor
market report showed that job gains are slowing. It also took place just
before government support programs lapsed, including enhanced
unemployment benefits that were helping many households to stay afloat
as business closures keep them out of work.

The need for additional fiscal policy support --- in other words, money
from Congress --- was a major point of discussion at the meeting, based
on the minutes released Wednesday. Fed officials noted it was
``uncertain'' in the short term whether additional government help would
come through, and they pointed out that monetary policy and
``particularly fiscal policy'' had important roles to play in supporting
business activity.

With some stimulus provisions ``set to expire shortly against the
backdrop of a still-weak labor market, additional fiscal aid would
likely be important for supporting vulnerable families, and thus the
economy more broadly, in the period ahead,'' some participants said,
according to the minutes.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

The path to reaching some sort of deal to provide another dose of fiscal
support is unclear, even as millions of Americans remain out of work and
some businesses continue to struggle. Senate Republicans began
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/republicans-coronavirus-stimulus-bill.html}{circulating
the text} of a narrow coronavirus relief package on Tuesday, but it is
unlikely that Democrats will sign on.

While President Trump has tried to unilaterally extend enhanced
unemployment insurance, alongside other measures, his executive orders
and memorandum will offer only partial relief that could take weeks to
reach consumers. Economists increasingly expect America's millions of
unemployed people to go without the \$600-per-week supplement they had
been receiving for at least all of August.

That could place more strain on less-advantaged households. Minority
workers and those with less education have been more likely to lose
jobs, and Fed officials seemed concerned with how they will fare going
forward.

``With lower-wage and service sector jobs disproportionately held by
African-Americans, Hispanics and women, these portions of the population
were bearing a disproportionate share of the economic hardship caused by
the pandemic,'' the minutes noted. ``Participants noted that the fiscal
support initiated in the spring through the CARES Act had been very
important in granting some financial relief to millions of families.''

The so-called CARES Act provided for an extra \$600 in weekly
unemployment benefits, student loan and mortgage relief, and small
business loans, all of which have helped households and the companies
they work for to make it through the pandemic. But the policies were
designed as a short-term solution, and many have either run out or will
do so in coming months.

The Fed has taken its own actions to support the economy, but its
policies primarily enable growth by making it cheaper to borrow and
spend --- they do not directly put money in consumers' and companies'
pockets. That task falls to Congress.

Since the late-July Fed gathering, real-time indicators of consumer
spending have continued to muddle along without showing much further
improvement, even retreating slightly by some metrics. The stock market,
on the other hand, has continued to surge, with key indexes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/business/stock-market-record.html}{touching
new highs}.

Central bank staff warned in July that financial vulnerabilities were
``notable,'' and flagged asset prices. They specifically pointed to
commercial real estate prices, which continued to increase even as
vacancies ticked up.

And some Fed officials suggested that they were worried about potential
risks to financial stability should the coronavirus crisis drag on, the
minutes showed.

``Banks and other financial institutions could come under significant
stress,'' some meeting participants noted, also pointing out that
companies have borrowed large sums of money and the government is
issuing huge amounts of debt, which could weigh on Treasury market
functioning.

``There was general agreement that these institutions, activities and
markets should be monitored closely,'' the minutes said, and a
``couple'' of Fed officials pushed for extended restrictions on bank
shareholder payouts, which include dividends, though another argued
against such a move.

The Fed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/business/economy/fed-dividend-buyback-limits.html}{has
limited dividends} without actually halting them.

The Fed has also been reviewing its policy framework --- the guiding
principles it follows when setting interest rates and other monetary
policies --- for more than a year. It is widely expected to soon
announce that it is scrapping its practice of raising rates
pre-emptively in an effort to choke off coming inflation, opting instead
for an approach that will allow price increases to run above the
official 2 percent goal for a time.

That tweak would leave interest rates lower for longer, keeping
borrowing for home-buying and business investment cheap. It would also
respond to the reality that inflation has been weak for years,
\href{https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PCEPILFE}{running consistently
shy} of the central bank's target for slow but steady price gains.
Excessively weak inflation can have bad side effects.

Officials at the meeting said that they should update their long-run
statement of policy goals, which describes their approach, and that ``it
would be important to finalize all changes to the statement in the near
future,'' the minutes showed.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
