Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}How Early Do Presidential
Campaigns Start? Earlier Than You May Think

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Rq3w9J}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-early-do-presidential-campaigns-start-earlier-than-you-may-think}{%
\section{How Early Do Presidential Campaigns Start? Earlier Than You May
Think}\label{how-early-do-presidential-campaigns-start-earlier-than-you-may-think}}

It's nearly two years until Election Day 2020, but Elizabeth Warren is
forming her exploratory committee right on schedule, if recent history
is any guide.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/02/us/politics/01warrenvid-1/01warrenvid-1-videoSixteenByNine3000-v3.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-sarah-mervosh/author-sarah-mervosh-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah
Mervosh} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 31, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The 2020 presidential race is happening --- now, today, before 2018 is
even over. On Monday, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of
Massachusetts, became the first major candidate to enter the contest,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020-president-announcement.html}{announcing}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020-president-announcement.html}{that}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020-president-announcement.html}{she
was forming an exploratory committee}.

In modern politics, forming the committee, which facilitates early
fund-raising, is seen as an all-but-official announcement that a person
is running for the presidency. Juli√°n Castro, the former federal housing
secretary and San Antonio
mayor,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/12/us/politics/julian-castro-president-democrat-texas.html}{also
formed} one this month. Several other
candidates\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/29/us/politics/2020-democratic-candidates-kamala-elizabeth-warren.html}{are
expected} to join the race in the coming weeks. (A congressman from
Maryland, John Delaney, has been running since 2017.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/10/us/politics/john-delaney-2020-iowa.html}{Read
more about him here}.)

And President Trump, never one to shy away from political combat, has
also gotten an early jump on the 2020 race, naming a campaign manager
last February and flouting precedent by raising money for his
re-election during the midterm campaign.

With the election more than 670 days away, this can all feel a little
ridiculous. But that does not make it unusual. A glance at recent
history suggests that the candidates are roughly on schedule.

{[}\emph{Make sense of the people, issues and ideas}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{shaping
American politics with our newsletter.}}{]}

It was not always this way. In 1960, John F. Kennedy did not announce
his candidacy until 11 months before Election Day. As recently as the
1992 election, Bill Clinton did not formally enter the presidential
contest until just over a year before the general election. But since
then, campaigns have grown longer, bloating into nearly two-year
affairs.

Here is a look back at some candidates who jumped in early, how they did
it and whether it did them much good:

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/31/us/00candidates-slide-S7F3/00candidates-slide-S7F3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Hillary Clinton: April 2015. Donald Trump: June 2015

\hypertarget{2016-rumblings-began-in-mid-december-2014}{%
\subsection{2016: Rumblings began in mid-December
2014}\label{2016-rumblings-began-in-mid-december-2014}}

By this time four years ago, former Gov. \textbf{Jeb Bush}, Republican
of Florida, had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/12/17/us/politics/jeb-bush-takes-a-step-toward-a-presidential-run-.html}{made
an early move} in the 2016 presidential race. In mid-December 2014, he
said he would ``actively explore'' a presidential run, announced plans
to create a political action committee and spent time calling donors.
(Mr. Bush, of course, did not win in the end.)

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

But it was Senator \textbf{Ted Cruz} of Texas, the eventual runner-up to
Mr. Trump in the Republican primary, who was the first major candidate
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/03/24/us/politics/ted-cruz-2016-presidential-race.html}{formally
announce a presidential bid}, in March 2015. The future Democratic
nominee, \textbf{Hillary Clinton}, declared
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/04/13/us/politics/hillary-clinton-2016-presidential-campaign.html}{``I'm
running for president''} soon after, in April 2015.

In the end, all of them lost to \textbf{Mr. Trump}, who did not
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/17/us/politics/donald-trump-runs-for-president-this-time-for-real-he-says.html}{announce
his candidacy} from the atrium of Trump Tower in Manhattan until June
2015.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/04/17/upshot/how-presidential-campaigns-became-two-year-marathons.html}{\emph{Here's
how presidential campaigns became two-year marathons.}}\emph{{]}}

Image

Mitt Romney at an early campaign event in June 2011. It was his second
run for president.Credit...Darren Mccollester/Getty Images

Mitt Romney: April 2011. Barack Obama: Incumbent

\hypertarget{2012-candidates-waited-until-springtime-2011}{%
\subsection{2012: Candidates waited until springtime
2011}\label{2012-candidates-waited-until-springtime-2011}}

\href{https://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/02/25/lots-of-talk-but-still-no-2012-republican-candidates/}{The
2012 election got off to a slow start}, although it was widely expected
that \textbf{Mitt Romney}, who had run in 2008, would again seek the
Republican nomination. But few of the Republicans lining up to run
against President Barack Obama were willing to formally claim an early
stake in the race.

Former Gov. \textbf{Tim Pawlenty} of Minnesota **** became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/03/22/us/politics/22pawlenty.html}{the
first major Republican to enter the race,} announcing an exploratory
committee in March 2011. But he would not win the party nomination.

Mr. Romney, **** the former governor of Massachusetts,
\href{https://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/04/11/romney-makes-it-official-quietly/}{announced
his own exploratory committee} in April 2011 and would eventually emerge
as the Republican standard-bearer against Mr. Obama, who won
re-election.

Image

Tom Vilsack, a Democrat who was the governor of Iowa, announced his
candidacy for the 2008 nomination at the end of November
2006.Credit...Scott Morgan/Getty Images

John McCain: November 2006. Barack Obama: January 2007

\hypertarget{2008-and-you-thought-this-year-was-fast}{%
\subsection{2008: And you thought this year was
fast?}\label{2008-and-you-thought-this-year-was-fast}}

If you think there wasn't enough room between the midterm election and
the start of presidential campaigns this year, look no further than the
2008 election cycle.

For the first time in more than half a century,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/01/22/us/politics/22campaign.html}{the
presidential race did not include an incumbent}--- either the president
or the vice president --- on the ballot. And the campaigning started so
early that it bumped up against the midterms.

\textbf{Tom Vilsack}, a Democrat who was the governor of Iowa,
\href{https://empirezone.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2006/11/09/a-phone-call-to-senator-clinton/}{announced
his intention to run for president} the week of the 2006 midterms and
\href{https://thecaucus.blogs.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2006/11/30/vilsack-kicks-off-08-bid/}{made
it official} by the end of November. \textbf{John McCain}, the senator
from Arizona who would go on to capture the Republican nomination,
formed his presidential exploratory committee that same month.

By January 2007, when
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/01/17/us/politics/17obama.html}{Barack
Obama}} and
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/01/20/us/politics/20cnd-clinton.html}{Hillary
Clinton}} launched their exploratory committees, the field was already
crowded with candidates. It was a breathtakingly fast start to a
presidential race that would propel Mr. Obama to the White House.

\emph{{[}Read more about how}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/01/22/us/politics/22campaign.html}{\emph{an
early rush of entries shaped the 2008 election}}\emph{.{]}}

John Kerry: December 2002. President Bush: Incumbent

\hypertarget{2004-the-nominee-went-early}{%
\subsection{2004: The nominee went
early}\label{2004-the-nominee-went-early}}

Going into the 2004 election, George W. Bush was the incumbent
president, but that did not dissuade prospective Democrats from
campaigning.

\textbf{John Kerry}, the senator from Massachusetts, established himself
as an early contender: In early December 2002, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2003/01/04/us/political-memo-with-no-04-front-runner-democrats-inch-toward-line.html}{went
on NBC's ``Meet the Press''} to declare that he was creating an
exploratory committee. By January, a flood of other candidates had
entered the race.

Initially, Mr. Kerry's early move paid off: He bested the other
Democratic candidates to become the party's nominee for president. But
he, too, lost to the incumbent president as Mr. Bush secured a second
term.

Image

George W. Bush at an airport in Iowa in June 1999, three months after
announcing his exploratory committee.Credit...Tim Sloan/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

Al Gore: January 1999. George W. Bush: March 1999

\hypertarget{2000-started-early-ended-late}{%
\subsection{2000: Started early, ended
late}\label{2000-started-early-ended-late}}

The unforgettable 2000 presidential race that ended with a recount in
Florida began with the long-shot candidacy of a liberal senator from
Minnesota.

The senator, Paul Wellstone,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1998/04/09/us/minnesota-senator-may-challenge-gore.html}{announced
an exploratory committee} as early as April 1998, more than two years
before the election. In a solicitation letter to Democrats during his
short-lived campaign,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1998/11/27/us/one-democrat-has-hat-in-ring-and-in-hand-for-presidency.html}{he
wrote}, ``Nov. 7, 2000, probably seems a long time away to you. (It does
to me!)''

\textbf{Al Gore,} then the vice president of the United States, was the
favorite for the Democratic nomination and announced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/01/01/us/gore-forming-organization-for-2000-bid-for-president.html}{his
first formal step toward running for president} on Jan. 1, 1999. The
future \textbf{President Bush}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/03/03/opinion/the-fight-in-george-bush-s-future.html}{announced
his exploratory committee two months later, in March 1999}.

But there was another notable candidate that election cycle:
\textbf{Donald J. Trump}. Encouraged by ``amazing'' polls,
``unbelievable'' news media interest and a ``huge'' ground swell of
public support, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/10/08/us/citing-public-support-trump-forms-exploratory-committee-on-presidency.html}{announced
an exploratory committee} to run for president in October 1999. He
suggested that Oprah Winfrey would be his vice president.

That campaign didn't take off. But we know how this story goes. Mr.
Trump made it to the White House, where he has uprooted American
politics --- and opened the door to the wide field of candidates who
will fight to challenge him in 2020. It starts now.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
