Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Coronavirus,
U.S.-China Feud, Climate Change: Your Friday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OQzoRX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-us-china-feud-climate-change-your-friday-briefing}{%
\section{Coronavirus, U.S.-China Feud, Climate Change: Your Friday
Briefing}\label{coronavirus-us-china-feud-climate-change-your-friday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering the U.S. passing \textbf{4 million cases}, a stumbling
\textbf{reopening in Spain} and climate change prompting \textbf{a
global migration.}
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/multimedia/23virusus-ambriefing/merlin_174873576_79389ec8-5383-47a1-938e-ed6696fe9163-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{us-passes-four-million-cases}{%
\subsection{U.S. passes four million
cases}\label{us-passes-four-million-cases}}

The U.S.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu\#link-39da89b8}{passed
four million} known coronavirus cases on Thursday, the world's highest
number. The numbers of daily hospitalizations and deaths are also
rising.

Public health experts have warned that the actual number of people
infected is far higher than the number of reported cases and could be
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/health/coronavirus-infections-us.html}{up
to 13 times as high in some regions}.

California and Texas are among the states setting daily records for new
infections. More than 143,000 people have died in the U.S.

\textbf{Spain reopening:} New coronavirus cases have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-reopening.html}{quadrupled
in Spain since it lifted a strict lockdown in June}, and thousands in
various areas are returning to temporary lockdowns. This time, the focus
is on younger people and the risk that they are unwittingly spreading
the virus.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Romania}
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu\#link-7aa50c66}{reimposed
  restrictions} after daily new infections rose above 1,000.
\item
  \textbf{Belgium's} prime minister issued
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2020/07/23/world/europe/23reuters-health-coronavirus-belgium.html}{broad
  mask-wearing requirements} and warned of even stricter measures if
  infections continued to rise.
\item
  Case surges could be slowed if the world's poorest people received a
  temporary \textbf{basic income},
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu\#link-7aa50c66}{enabling
  them to stay at home}, according to a United Nations report.
\item
  President Trump said he had canceled the portion of the
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{Republican
  National Convention}} slated for Jacksonville, Fla., citing the virus.
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Costa
  Rica}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{is
  reopening its borders} to tourists, but U.S. citizens aren't welcome
  just yet. Five flights a week will be allowed in from the European
  Union, the United Kingdom and Canada starting Aug. 1, the country's
  tourism minister announced Thursday.
\end{itemize}

Here are the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{latest
updates} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps}
tracking the pandemic.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

China's leader, Xi Jinping, remains the ultimate arbiter of the policy
debate in Beijing but has not spoken out on the deterioration in
relations with the United States. Credit...Tingshu Wang/Reuters

\hypertarget{china-wants-to-punish-the-us-but-how-much}{%
\subsection{China wants to punish the U.S., but how
much?}\label{china-wants-to-punish-the-us-but-how-much}}

China ordered the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/world/asia/china-us-consulate-chengdu.html}{closure
of the U.S. consulate in Chengdu} on Friday, saying it was a retaliation
for Washington's decision earlier this week to close China's consulate
in Houston.

The tit-for-tat consulate closures were yet another twist in
deteriorating relations between Washington and Beijing, perhaps the
gravest one yet.

But behind the scenes, Chinese leaders seem to have little desire to
further escalate tensions, concerned that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/asia/us-china-consulate.html}{a
breach in relations would hurt the economy or invite global isolation}.
Officials are also wary that any moves could play into President Trump's
hands during his re-election campaign.

Still, Beijing cannot afford to appear weak in the face of attacks from
the United States, and the furor is inflaming anti-American sentiment
domestically.

\textbf{Bigger picture:} China is also clashing with India, Britain,
Canada, Australia and many other countries, and it is still reeling from
the coronavirus pandemic and the global fallout.

\textbf{Related:} Cybersecurity researchers have found
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/dji-drones-security-vulnerability.html}{a
vulnerability in an app that helps power popular Chinese-made consumer
drones}, highlighting U.S. officials' concerns that Beijing could get
access to information about Americans.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Bruno Dey, a former guard at the Stutthof concentration camp, hid his
face as he arrived to court in Hamburg, Germany, on
Thursday.Credit...Pool photo by Fabian Bimmer

\hypertarget{former-nazi-guard-is-convicted}{%
\subsection{Former Nazi guard is
convicted}\label{former-nazi-guard-is-convicted}}

A 93-year-old man was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/europe/holocaust-trial-nazi-guard-germany.html}{convicted
on Thursday for helping the Nazis murder thousands of people} when he
was a 17-year-old concentration camp guard --- possibly one of the last
verdicts to be handed down to a living Holocaust participant.

Bruno Dey was found guilty of 5,230 counts of murder, one for each
person believed to have been killed in the Stuffhof concentration camp
in Poland. Tried in juvenile court, he was given a two-year suspended
sentence. Survivors and those representing them said it was too lenient.

\textbf{Context:} Prosecutors in the special office for handling
Nazi-era crimes are pushing to bring aging suspects to justice before it
is too late. It comes as the country is dealing with a resurgence in
right-wing extremism. A trial opened this week in another court for a
German suspect accused in a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/world/europe/germany-synagogue-attack-trial.html}{plot
to attack a synagogue} that left two people dead.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-30-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 30 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-30-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{climate-and-the-coming-mass-migration}{%
\subsection{Climate and the coming mass
migration}\label{climate-and-the-coming-mass-migration}}

Image

Credit...Meridith Kohut for The New York Times

Above, farm workers who are struggling to harvest maize to feed their
families in Guatemala. As their land fails them and the planet warms,
hundreds of millions of people will be forced to choose between flight
or death. The result will almost certainly be the greatest wave of
global migration the world has seen.

The Times Magazine and ProPublica joined with the Pulitzer Center to
model, for the first time, how people will move across borders. With
every degree of temperature increase,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/23/magazine/climate-migration.html}{roughly
a billion people will be pushed outside} the zone in which humans have
long lived.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Obama-Biden video:} Former Vice President Joe Biden has released
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/barack-obama-joe-biden-video.html}{a
video of a conversation with former President Barack Obama} meant to
cast President Trump as unworthy and Mr. Biden as his perfect
replacement.

\textbf{Uighur forced labor:} More than 190 organizations in 36
countries are calling on clothing brands
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/fashion/uighur-forced-labor-cotton-fashion.html}{to
cut all ties with suppliers implicated in Uighur forced labor in China}.
Targets include Adidas, Lacoste, H\&M, Abercrombie \& Fitch, Ralph
Lauren and the PVH Corporation, which owns labels including Tommy
Hilfiger and Calvin Klein.

\textbf{Climate change lawsuit:} A 23-year-old law student has filed a
class-action suit accusing the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/australia/lawsuit-climate-change-bonds.html}{Australian
government of failing to disclose financial risks from climate change}.
Experts say it's the first case of its kind being brought against a
sovereign nation.

\textbf{France:} The dramatic rescue of two Grenoble boys, ages 3 and
10, who leapt from a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/europe/france-children-rescue-video.html}{burning
apartment into the waiting arms of a crowd below} has drawn admiration
after it was captured on video.

Image

Credit...Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, China's Long March 5 rocket
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/science/mars-china-launch.html}{blasting
off from Wenchang Space Launch Center} on Thursday on its way to Mars.
The mission --- which combines an orbiter, a lander and a rover --- is
scheduled to arrive at Mars in February.

\textbf{Dueling albums:} Taylor Swift and Kanye West, who have been
linked since the MTV Video Music Awards in 2009, are both set to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/arts/music/taylor-swift-kanye-west.html}{release
new records today.}

\textbf{West End:} On Thursday, 640 theatergoers attended the first
performance in London since March (even giving a very unBritish whoop).
But some producers say further shows are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/theater/west-end-london-virus.html}{unlikely
until social distancing ends}.

\textbf{What we're reading:}
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/davidmack/summer-travel-during-coronavirus}{BuzzFeed
News's Q. and A.} with coronavirus experts on whether they're taking
vacations, and if so, how. ``A lot of them are too busy to take off,
which many of us in news can relate to,'' says the Briefings editor,
Andrea Kannapell. ``But some of them are, and I plan to follow their
advice.''

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Bryan Gardner for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Barrett
Washburne.

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/dining/celery-chicken-salad-recipe.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{chicken
and celery salad with wasabi-tahini dressing} is equally delicious cold
or at room temperature and can be tucked into soft potato rolls for
sandwiches.

\textbf{Listen:} Among
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/arts/music/women-new-wave-playlist.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{female-led
new wave bands}, the Cosmopolitans and Spider are not as well known as
Kate Bush or Blondie, but equally worth a listen.

\textbf{Do:} Changing the way we breathe can influence weight, athletic
performance, allergies, asthma, snoring, mood, stress, focus and so much
more. You can learn to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/at-home/coronavirus-breathing-exercises.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{breathe
better with these exercises}.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch, and do
while staying safe at home.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{a-harsh-virus-response-in-the-philippines}{%
\subsection{A harsh virus response in the
Philippines}\label{a-harsh-virus-response-in-the-philippines}}

\emph{With more than 70,000 infections and 1,800 deaths, the Philippines
has been hit hard by the coronavirus. President Rodrigo Duterte has
empowered the police to go home to home searching for the sick and has
warned that anyone not wearing a mask will be arrested.}

\emph{Jason Gutierrez, who is based in Manila, spoke to our colleagues
from the}
\href{https://static.nytimes.com/email-content/CB_sample.html}{\emph{Coronavirus
Briefing}} \emph{about the government's heavy-handed approach.}

\textbf{What is the status of the virus in the Philippines?}

The government hasn't really been upfront about what's happening.
President Duterte just said that all we can do is wait for the experts
in the United States or China to develop a vaccine and basically advised
the public to follow the rules or risk arrest.

Our Health Ministry is seen by many as really inefficient. It lets Mr.
Duterte say what he wants to say and does not clarify it in public.

Image

A police officer in an armored personnel carrier during the lockdown in
Manila last week.~Credit...Aaron Favila/Associated Press

\textbf{What is the situation in Manila?}

People in the city have to go through checkpoints, and cops go around
some areas in fatigues, like they're going into battle. Some carry large
firearms. It's worrying because it's militarizing the response.

In some areas, especially the impoverished parts, people are really
afraid to leave their homes and are basically told to just wait it out
for food and medical advice or risk being arrested.

\textbf{What has the response been to President Duterte saying the
police would arrest people who didn't wear masks?}

In a lot of places, you see people in public always wearing medical
masks. Ironically, he does not wear a mask whenever he meets his
officials, and he only wore a mask when he made that threat.

Militarizing the response is probably his way of telling the public that
he, as a strongman president, is doing something.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. Let
\href{https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4j69qjJM2f288elsB28FQG}{RZA's
guided explorations} take you away. Have a great weekend.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about the deployment of federal forces
to U.S. cities.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: So-called ``rabbit food'' (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• The Times is \href{https://t.co/IjClG0T68u}{acquiring Serial
Productions}, a group of long-form audio journalists, and has formed a
creative and strategic alliance with ``This American Life,'' a show that
transformed audio journalism.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
