Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Opposition Challenges
Poland's Presidential Election Results

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZAuFKd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{opposition-challenges-polands-presidential-election-results}{%
\section{Opposition Challenges Poland's Presidential Election
Results}\label{opposition-challenges-polands-presidential-election-results}}

Critics say both the campaign and the vote were plagued with
irregularities and fraud. Amid a flurry of filings to the Supreme Court,
the main opposition party called for the election to be declared
invalid.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/world/16poland-election/merlin_174523443_f41e0c69-ec1a-4bab-b4c8-52e06cfd0732-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/marc-santora}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-marc-santora/author-marc-santora-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/marc-santora}{Marc Santora}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WARSAW --- Supporters of the mayor of Warsaw, joined by scores of Polish
voters and rights groups, raced on Thursday to file legal challenges to
the validity of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/world/europe/poland-president-elections-Andrzej-Duda.html}{Sunday's
presidential election}, which he narrowly lost to the incumbent,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-andrzej-duda-poland.html}{President
Andrzej Duda.}

The rush to file the complaints was the result of a new electoral code
passed by the government in May, cutting the time to file such
challenges from 14 days to three.

In lodging the official protests with the nation's Supreme Court,
supporters of the mayor, Rafal Trzaskowski, were not expecting to
overturn the result of the election, given the margin of defeat of
nearly half a million votes.

Their object was more to expose what they said was a pattern of
political interference that marred the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/world/europe/poland-election-court-challenge.html}{country's
closest election} since the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1989/08/20/weekinreview/a-new-orbit-poland-s-break-leads-europe-and-communism-to-a-threshold.html}{end
of communist rule} in 1989 and to delay the certification of the vote
long enough for it to be declared invalid.

If nothing else, the challenges will pose a test for a court system that
has undergone
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/20/world/europe/eu-poland-law.html}{sweeping
changes} since the governing Law and Justice party came to power five
years ago. The government has been accused of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/03/world/europe/poland-supreme-court-protest.html}{undermining
judicial independence} and theoretically faces the prospect of becoming
the first nation in the European Union to lose its voting rights.

Joanna Lemanska, the head of the Extraordinary Control and Public
Affairs Chamber of the Supreme Court, which will rule on the validity of
the election, was appointed by Mr. Duda. She suggested that she would
step aside but has yet to do so.

Even if she does recuse herself, critics believe the special chamber is
no longer an impartial arbiter of the law. But by overwhelming the
judges with complaints, they hope to make it impossible for the judges
to certify the results with the required 21 days.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/world/16poland-election4/merlin_174527901_0fbb03e6-64d2-46ba-9835-fe81874eb18c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trzaskowski, who has not commented on the legal challenges, is
scheduled to give a speech in the northern port city of Gdynia on
Friday, where he will try to rally supporters against the government.

Borys Budka, the head of the main opposition party, Civic Platform, said
on Thursday that there was growing evidence that the election was deeply
flawed.

``These elections were not equal, didn't meet democratic standards, they
were dishonest,'' he said. ``Because of that, we demand that they are
declared invalid.''

The most widespread irregularities were reported by the Polish diaspora,
with tens of thousands of votes from abroad potentially left uncounted.
But there were also reports of strange results in a number of nursing
homes, which reported Mr. Duda winning 100 percent of the vote, and
concerns about extra ballots sent to polling stations without proper
documentation.

Cezary Tomczyk, the head of the mayor's campaign team, said they had
received reports from all around Poland of ballots that were not
properly stamped.

``The election result is not just a simple statement of who won but also
showing respect for every vote which was cast and or which couldn't be
cast,'' he said in an interview on \href{https://tvn24.pl/}{TVN24,} a
Polish broadcaster. ``We don't know the scale of irregularities. This
can only be determined by the Supreme Court.''

His team set up a web page to help voters file protests, and he said
several thousand had already been registered.

Image

Counting votes in the recent presidential election. Critics say the
greatest irregularities occurred in the diaspora, particularly in
Britain, where the opposition is strong.Credit...Krzysztof
Kaniewski/ZUMA

Some of the most troubling reports came from overseas, where a record
520,000 people had registered to vote before the election but only
415,951 ballots were counted. Complaints filed with the court charge
that the Polish Foreign Ministry worked to suppress the number of
voters.

In Britain, over 30,000 ballots --- 16.6 percent --- went missing,
according to a calculation using public data by the Polish newspaper
\href{https://wyborcza.pl/0,0.html}{Gazeta Wyborcza}.

With the voting done exclusively by mail in Britain because of the
pandemic, Poland's Foreign Ministry blamed the British Post Office and
voters themselves for the problems.

Mr. Trzaskowski won the vote there by a wide margin, securing 112,207
votes to Mr. Duda's 32,067.

In Germany, 11,500 ballots did not make it to the consulates on time to
be counted, and similar problems were reported in other countries with
large Polish populations.

``We can expect a record number of election protests because these
elections --- in my view --- have been carried out in an unjust
manner,'' said Michał Wawrykiewicz, a lawyer from the
\href{https://www.facebook.com/WolneSady/}{Free Courts Initiative} and
Committee for Defense of Justice. ``Never before have such situations
taken place. Never before have we been dealing with such a massive party
propaganda in the public media, which also influenced the result of the
elections.''

Paulina Kieszkowska-Knapik, who joined her colleagues from the
Initiative at the Supreme Court on Thursday afternoon to file their
complaint, grew emotional over what she said was a deep injustice.

``The original sin,'' she said, ``was holding the election during a
pandemic.'' That, she said, was itself a violation of the Constitution.

Adam Bielan, the head of the Law and Justice election team, said the
claims should be assessed by the Supreme Court, but that the review
would not change the outcome.

``The advantage of President Andrzej Duda over Rafał Trzaskowski is so
big that even if there had been inconsistencies, they could concern
voters of both candidates,'' he was quoted as saying by Gazeta Prawna, a
legal newspaper. Other party officials did not return calls seeking
comment.

Image

Warsaw's mayor, Rafal Trzaskowski, conceded defeat in the election but
has yet to comment on the voting.Credit...Czarek Sokolowski/Associated
Press

As the deadline to file protests approached, volunteers from ``Polonia
Express,'' a civic organization based in Britain, helped overseas voters
to register complaints on time.

Over 2,900 people joined a Facebook group called
\href{https://www.facebook.com/groups/271942133870461/}{``Electoral
protests --- Polonia has the right to vote.''} The grass-roots
initiative created forms for voters to fill out citing abuses like the
voting package arriving too late or not at all.

Separately, protests were filed over
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/11/world/europe/poland-election-state-television-tvp.html}{the
use of state television to bolster the Duda campaign}.

The Supreme Court's handling of the protests will be closely watched.

In the days between the first round of elections and the runoff contest
on Sunday, the European Court of Justice heard arguments in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/03/world/europe/poland-supreme-court-protest.html}{one
of several cases} related to Poland's changes in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/14/world/europe/poland-eu-parliament.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{the
judicial system}, which critics said were designed to quash the courts'
independence.

``The whole judiciary system of the E.U. cannot work if courts are not
independent,'' Michal Gajdus said in the European court, which is based
in Luxembourg.

Since 1989, judges in Poland had been selected by the National Council
of the Judiciary. But in 2017, Mr. Duda signed into law changes that
critics said would enable the president to appoint judges sympathetic to
the Law and Justice party.

The changes led the European Commission to trigger Article 7 of the
Treaty on the European Union,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/20/world/europe/eu-poland-law.html}{the
so-called nuclear option} that could result in Poland losing its voting
rights. But since that would require a unanimous vote by all 27 E.U.
member countries, it is not likely to happen.

Monika Pronczuk and Anatol Magdziarz contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
