Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/style/self-care/}{Self-Care}\textbar{}You Are Your Safest
Sex Partner. Betty Dodson Wants to Help.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2USUbaj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/25/fashion/25BETTYDODSON-1/merlin_169832076_ff30ed64-4858-4421-85ec-f2f69f70f1f7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{you-are-your-safest-sex-partner-betty-dodson-wants-to-help}{%
\section{You Are Your Safest Sex Partner. Betty Dodson Wants to
Help.}\label{you-are-your-safest-sex-partner-betty-dodson-wants-to-help}}

The nonagenarian masturbation icon is not slowing down.

``A real orgasm,'' Ms. Dodson said, ``is something that no matter where
it comes from, a woman takes for herself.''Credit...Celeste Sloman for
The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ruth-la-ferla}{Ruth La
Ferla}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

What does it take to make Gwyneth Paltrow blush? Not much more, it turns
out, than some explicit coaching on how to tone her pelvic floor. Her
instructor, Betty Dodson, the fine artist turned sex educator and
evangelist for female self-stimulation, was preaching the benefits of
the Kegel-like exercise that Ms. Dodson maintains can help trigger an
orgasm.

``Lift up, squeeze, release,'' she coaxed, prompting Ms. Paltrow,
purveyor of a \$75 candle called
\href{https://shop.goop.com/shop/products/this-smells-like-my-vagina-candle?country=USA}{This
Smells Like My Vagina,} to turn pink from her jawline to her brow.

That scene, from ``\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/80244690}{The
Goop Lab,}'' on Netflix, a look at Ms. Paltrow's millennial-friendly
lifestyle business, was a milestone for Ms. Dodson: rendering her more
visible, and arguably more relevant, than she has been since she began
teaching women how to climax a half century ago.

``There are younger educators now,'' said
\href{http://anniesprinkle.org/the-sprinkle-story/}{Annie Sprinkle}, the
1970s pornography star turned sex educator and longtime Dodson disciple,
``but Betty can still rile them up.''

A disrupter before that was a buzzword, Ms. Dodson has consistently
proselytized her sex-positive ideals over the decades, urging
participants in the Bodysex workshops she founded in the '70s to sit in
the buff on her carpeted floor, peer at each other's vulvas and learn to
masturbate effectively.

Even before the New York City health department advised
``\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/imm/covid-sex-guidance.pdf}{you
are your safest sex partner}'' in a widely circulated memo, Ms. Dodson,
now 90, was enjoying a timely rebirth. Her message resonates in the 2017
primer she wrote with Carlin Ross,
``\href{https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38729486-betty-dodson-bodysex-basics}{Bodysex
Basics,}'' and in a reissued version of her 2010 memoir, ``Sex by
Design: The Betty Dodson Story''; in the popular workshops she holds
every month in her Midtown Manhattan apartment (now on hiatus, replaced
by group chats online); in the erotic art that first gained her
attention, her images of copulating partners to be exhibited late this
year at the Museum of Sex (if and when it reopens), to which
s\href{https://www.museumofsex.com/museum/about/advisors/}{he is an
adviser}; and on dodsonandross.com, the website she maintains with Ms.
Ross, her 46-year-old business partner and heir apparent.

On ``The Goop Lab,'' Ms. Ross lies prone in a darkened room. Ms. Dodson
is poised over her, helping to smooth oil into her genitals,
demonstrating a hand-over-hand massage technique, and murmuring gently
as she guides Ms. Ross toward an eventual climax.

If the earth moved for Ms. Ross, it wasn't apparent. Apart from some
accelerated breathing and gentle quaking, her experience looked and
sounded nothing like the auditory and visual fireworks that have long
been a mainstay of heterosexual pornography.

If it seemed tame by comparison, Ms. Ross said, ``that's because it
wasn't a performed orgasm.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/26/fashion/25BETTYDODSON-2/25BETTYDODSON-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

She was chatting before the spread of the novel coronavirus sent New
Yorkers into self-isolation, in the combined office and bedroom where
she and Ms. Dodson write and plan their projects.

A gilded, winged penis, one of Ms. Dodson's oddly assorted awards,
claimed pride of place on a high shelf of a bookcase otherwise lined
with self-published videocassettes like ``Viva la Vulva,'' and germinal
works including
``\href{https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/41589/sex-fo}{Sex for
One: The Joy of Self-Loving,''} her groundbreaking 1987 primer on female
masturbation.

Ms. Dodson made her entrance dressed in a slouchy bathrobe, its chest
pocket monogrammed with the letters, B.A.D., ``my initials, Betty Anne
Dodson,'' she said, eyes crinkling, before returning to her theme.

Sure, an orgasm can be noisy at times. ``Usually, though, the sounds are
a lot more guttural, deeper, more animalistic,'' she said. ``The legs
tremble, the whole body trembles. I've never seen that in pornography.''

So why do so many women feel obliged to put on a show enhanced by a
soundtrack of moans and shattering screams? ``The guys don't want to see
real orgasms, they want the porn orgasm,'' Ms. Dodson said caustically.
``It's an ego thing. They want to see the kind of effect they're having
on a woman.''

``A real orgasm,'' she added, leaning forward for emphasis, ``is
something that no matter where it comes from, a woman takes for
herself.''

It's a precept central to her teaching. ``You've got to run''
intercourse, she enjoins of women: Take charge, that is, become an
active participant in your own pleasure. If you are with a partner,
``Get 'em to do what you want,'' she all but barked. ``Get the position
you want.''

Manual or battery-powered, masturbation is, in her view, the cornerstone
of sexual fulfillment, a catalyst for pleasure, and, more than that, the
reliable foundation of social and emotional independence.

``Instinct told me,'' she writes in her memoir, ``that sexual mobility
was the same as social mobility. Men had it and women didn't.''

Her take-charge attitude, subversive, even incendiary in the early '70s,
did not sit well with some feminists, who deemed Ms. Dodson's notion of
coupling mechanical and lacking in connection. They were, moreover, far
too intent on calling out the abuses and indignities endured at the
hands of men. ``They were always complaining,'' she recalled testily.

Image

Some other tchotchkes on Ms. Dodson's desk.Credit...Celeste Sloman for
The New York Times

Undaunted, she responded with a form of sexual consciousness raising;
vital to her message was a full-on repudiation of romantic love.
``Romance is so serious,'' she said in her apartment. ``It's no longer
that paradigm, where I have to love you and you have to love me back.''

Ms. Ross chimed in: ``Sex can be playful, more like, `Let's have some
fun.'''

Ms. Dodson's epiphany arrived in the wake of a rocky, sexually tepid
marriage in the early 1960s to an advertising executive, Frederick
Stern. The couple had no children, nor did Ms. Dodson, who grew up with
three siblings, plan on having them in the future. ``I watched what my
mother went through,'' she said. ``It's the most thankless job on the
planet.''

Free to experiment, she explored group sex with women and men, her
objective, she said in a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1971/05/10/archives/group-sex-is-it-life-art-or-a-sign-that-something-is-wrong.html}{1970
New York Times interview,} to let go of jealousy and possessive
feelings, ``to understand I could love more than one person.''

She eventually became disenchanted. ``Organized group sex is a little
bowling-league kind of thing,'' she said at the time. ``It's
super‚Äêcompulsive --- there's a frantic quality to it. It's weird.''

With a small settlement from her divorce, she financed the first of the
sex workshops for women that were to become her livelihood and calling.
At them, she urged often skittish participants to strip down, discover
their bodies and embrace practices involving clitoral massage and the
use of the Magic Wand, the slightly unwieldy but highly efficient
vibrator she promotes and sells through her website, Dodson and Ross.

Her closely shorn white hair and sagelike demeanor invites comparisons
with Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the cozily entertaining sex guru who
mainstreamed in the 1980s. Ms. Dodson isn't having it. ``Dr. Ruth is
your grandmother with a funny accent,'' she likes to say. ``You never
listen to what she says.''

The comparison is apt --- to a point, Ms. Sprinkle said. ``Dr. Ruth is
safe, whereas Betty is edgy, a progressive explorer of sexuality. She
has the kinds of experiences that even her younger followers will never
have.''

A performer to her core, Ms. Dodson has cultivated a persona that swings
between gruffly abrasive and genial, and she can be wryly funny at
times. Since being given a clean bill of health by her doctor last
month, after a routine checkup, she has taken up smoking for the first
time in years.

``Why not?'' she said with a hoot, ``I'm going to live forever.'' But
when Ms. Ross suggested that she was free to light up any time, she
bristled. ``I'll decide when I smoke.''

Groundbreaking in their day, Ms. Dodson's teachings will hardly startle
young women, growing up as they did watching pop idols like Miley Cyrus,
Nicki Minaj and others stroking themselves in videos and on the concert
stage.

Their lyrics, too, make self-stimulation sound as routine as a trip to
the mall. ``Oh what an ordinary day,'' Annie Clark, known professionally
as St. Vincent, croons on
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TAdARF4rGcQ}{``Birth in Reverse,''
her 2014 single,} ``Take out the garbage, masturbate. \ldots{}''

A younger generation has ready access to online guides like
\href{https://www.bustle.com/articles/39485-how-to-masturbate-female-style-8-steps-to-having-orgasms-without-a-vibrator}{``How
to Masturbate, Female Style: 8 Steps to Having Orgasms},'' on Bustle,
the instructions handy, as the author writes, ``because knowing several
ways to get yourself off is something everybody should have in their
skill set.''

A similar matter-of-factness underpins a somewhat glib assertion by Flo
Perry, a 27-year-old British writer and illustrator, in
``\href{https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/313/313049/how-to-have-feminist-sex/9780241391563.html}{How
to Have Feminist Sex: A Fairly Graphic Guide.''} Masturbation can
function as nothing much more than ``a form of self-care,'' she writes.

Still, some younger women seem to prefer Ms. Dodson's hands-on (if
you'll forgive) approach. The classes that she lists online are crowded
with clients, roughly half of whom range in age from 24 to 40, according
to Ms. Ross. A few may respond to the current of rage that runs through
Ms. Dodson's writings and heats up her conversation.

She recalls in her memoir an instance in which an older friend makes
groping advances on her best friend. Snatching a blade from a nearby
cutting board, she hisses, ``You better get out of here before I shove
this knife into your stomach.''

Yet, in other instances, Ms. Dodson seems unaccountably cooperative.
Deep into her memoir she describes a back yard encounter with a
demi-clad stranger, who was hovering menacingly at her back. Sensing
that he was about to pounce, she pivoted, undid his belt, pushed him
into a chair and mounted him.

It's a startling incident to read about, all the more so in the \#MeToo
era, when Ms. Dodson's seemingly cavalier attitude has the ring of
heresy. But she isn't about to recant. ``Unless you are a martial
artist,'' she said, resisting a man during an attack ``is mostly
useless. Men are bigger and stronger. I don't care what your motives are
--- fighting doesn't work.''

Her relationship to the burlier sex can be tartly dismissive. ``Men are
so two-dimensional,'' she said. ``If there is anything interesting about
them, it's because of the women they've been with.''

Ms. Ross reminded Ms. Dodson that in her mid-70s, she had a 25-year-old
lover with whom she lived for a decade. For Ms. Dodson, the memory still
sets off sparks.

``He was so beautiful,'' she said between wistful puffs on a Marlboro
Light. ``He had the perfect body, broad shoulders, good-size genitals
and tight bones. And oh, he smelled so good --- that youth, and a lot of
soap and water.''

``Partner sex, that's over now,'' she went on. ``But I wouldn't turn
down a good-looking guy if he walked in now.''

Being without a partner is no reason to abandon the field, she added
matter-of-factly, confiding that she still smokes marijuana on occasion
(``I wouldn't be here without it.''), sometimes as a prelude to
occasional solitary sex.

No point sitting back, hoping idly to be overtaken by desire.

``We get desire once we are aroused,'' she said. ``Don't wait for the
spirit to move you, because it never will.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
