Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

Afghan War Casualty Report: September 2020

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bnpgug}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

at war

\hypertarget{afghan-war-casualty-report-september-2020}{%
\section{Afghan War Casualty Report: September
2020}\label{afghan-war-casualty-report-september-2020}}

At least 45 pro-government forces and 27 civilians have been killed in
Afghanistan in the past seven days.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/magazine/03atwar-casualty-report/merlin_176333214_8322be07-1859-42e7-90ed-1d0cf76bac93-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Fahim Abed

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The following report compiles all significant security incidents
confirmed by New York Times reporters throughout Afghanistan from the
past seven days. It is necessarily incomplete as many local officials
refuse to confirm casualty information. The report includes government
claims of insurgent casualty figures, but in most cases these cannot be
independently verified by The Times. Similarly, the reports do not
include Taliban claims for their attacks on the government unless they
can be verified. Both sides routinely inflate casualty totals for their
opponents.

At least 45 pro-government forces and 27 civilians were killed in
Afghanistan during the past week, as the government declared all
obstacles to peace talks cleared, with negotiations expected to resume
shortly. The deadliest attack took place in Kandahar Province, where a
van was hit by a roadside bomb planted by the Taliban in the Loykarez
area of Spin Boldak District, killing 12 members of one family,
including women and children. Later in the week, in Khost Province, a
vehicle carrying police forces came under Taliban attack in the center
of Qalamwal Mina in Khost City, the provincial capital, while patrolling
the area. Six police officers were killed and another was wounded.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/afghan-war-casualty-reports}{Read
the Afghan War Casualty Report from previous weeks.}{]}

\textbf{Sept. 3 Khost Province: six police officers killed}

A vehicle carrying police forces came under Taliban attack in the center
of Qalamwal Mina in Khost City while patrolling the area. Six police
officers were killed and another was wounded.

\textbf{Sept. 3 Paktia Province: two civilians killed}

Two religious scholars were kidnapped and later killed by Taliban
fighters in the Nozi Khwla area of Chamkani District.

\textbf{Sept. 3 Nangarhar Province: three civilians killed}

A roadside bomb hit a civilian vehicle in the Dargay area of Pachiragam
District, killing three civilians and wounding another.

\textbf{Sept. 2 Badghis Province: one security force killed}

The Taliban shot and killed a member of the National Directorate of
Security in the Laman village of Qala-e-Naw City, the provincial
capital.

\textbf{Sept. 2 Ghazni Province: one police officer killed}

The Taliban ambushed a group of police officers in the center of Andar
District, abducting two wounded officers, one of whom they later killed.

\textbf{Sept. 2 Kabul Province: one soldier killed}

A police officer was shot and killed by an unknown gunman near his house
in the Bagh-e-Chehel Sotoon area of Kabul City, the capital.

\textbf{Sept. 2 Sar-i-Pul Province: six civilians killed}

Six children between the ages of 1 and 12 were killed when a bomb inside
their house exploded in the Taliban-controlled Gajawi village of
Sancharak District. Officials suspect the father of being associated
with the Taliban and having the bomb in his home.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Paktia Province: three security forces killed}

A vehicle loaded with explosives detonated in front of the headquarters
of the Public Protection Force in Gardiz, the provincial capital. The
main entrance to the compound was targeted and two suicide bombers tried
to enter before they were shot. Three members of the Public Protection
Forces were killed and eight others were wounded.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Kandahar Province: one police officer killed}

Rahmat Shah, the acting director of the National Directorate of Security
for Arghistan District, was killed when a bomb attached to his vehicle
detonated in the center of the district. One of his bodyguards was also
wounded in the explosion.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Kunduz Province: one police officer killed}

The Taliban shot and killed a 45-year-old female police officer in the
Shorakhak area of the First Police District of Kunduz City, the
provincial capital.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Faryab Province: one police officer killed}

The Taliban attacked the governor's office in Qaisar District, killing
one police officer. Local authorities claimed that 11 Taliban fighters
were killed in the clash.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Jowzjan Province: one soldier killed}

The Taliban attacked a military base in the Ali Abad village of Faizabad
district, killing one soldier during an hour of fighting.

\textbf{Sept. 1 Farah Province: two soldiers killed}

Two soldiers were killed and another was wounded when their Humvee hit a
roadside bomb in the village of Mil 73 in Anar-Darra District.

\textbf{Aug. 31 Balkh Province: four security forces killed}

The Taliban attacked the center of Koshenda District, killing four
pro-government militia members and wounding a police officer.

\textbf{Aug. 31 Herat Province: one soldier killed}

A Humvee hit a roadside bomb in the Chawni area of Shindand District,
wounding two soldiers. When another unit was trying to reach and
evacuate the wounded, their vehicle was blown up by a second roadside
bomb, killing one soldier and wounding another.

\textbf{Aug. 31 Wardak Province: four police officers killed}

A Humvee hit a roadside bomb in the Kashmiri Qala area of Maidan Shahr,
the provincial capital, killing four police officers.

\textbf{Aug. 31 Herat Province: one soldier killed}

A Humvee carrying border forces hit a roadside bomb in the village of
Gala-Chah in Golran District, killing one soldier and wounding another.

\textbf{Aug. 31 Baghlan Province: one police officer killed}

While bringing food to his outpost, a local police commander was shot
and killed by the Taliban in the Hawly area of Dahana-e-Ghori District.

\textbf{Aug. 30 Balkh Province: one police officer killed}

Unknown gunmen shot and killed a police officer in the Ninth Police
District of Mazar-e-Sharif City, the provincial capital, before escaping
from the area.

\textbf{Aug. 30 Balkh Province: three security forces killed}

The Taliban attacked the Koshenda district center, killing three
pro-government militia members and wounding two others over several
hours of fighting, during which the governor's office was destroyed.

\textbf{Aug. 29 Paktia Province: four security forces and one civilian
killed}

A vehicle carrying pro-government militia members was hit by a roadside
mine planted by the Taliban in the Narai Kotal area of Patan District,
killing four pro-government militia members and one civilian.

\textbf{Aug. 29 Khost Province: one police officer killed}

Unknown gunmen shot and killed a police officer in the Ghrombai area of
Khost City, the provincial capital, before escaping from the area.

\textbf{Aug. 29 Nangarhar Province: three security forces killed}

The Taliban attacked security outposts in the Merzakhel area of Khogyani
District, killing three pro-government militia members and wounding two
others. Local authorities claimed that six Taliban fighters were also
killed in the clash.

\textbf{Aug. 29 Balkh Province: one security force killed}

The Taliban attacked a security outpost in the Shahab area of Balkh
District, killing one pro-government militia member and wounding two
others.

\textbf{Aug. 28 Badghis Province: one soldier killed}

One Soldier was shot and killed by a Taliban marksman in the village of
Sang-e-Atash in Moqor District.

\textbf{Aug. 28 Kandahar Province: 12 civilians killed}

A van hit a roadside bomb planted by the Taliban in the Loykarez area of
Spin Boldak District, killing 12 members of one family, including women
and children.

\textbf{Aug. 28 Faryab Province: three civilians killed}

The Taliban attacked security outposts and used civilian houses as
shields in the Yangi Qala District. Then Afghan soldiers fired a mortar,
which hit one of the houses, killing three children.

\textbf{Aug. 28 Badghis Province: one soldier killed}

The Taliban attacked security forces in the village of
Kotal-e-Shab-Bashak in Qala-e-Naw City, killing one soldier.

\textbf{Aug. 28 Balkh Province: one soldier killed}

The Taliban attacked two military bases in the Sharak Turkmania area of
Nahr-e-Shahi District, killing one soldier.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Reporting was contributed by the following New York Times reporters:
Najim Rahim from Kabul, Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Zabihullah Ghazi
from Nangarhar, Farooq Jan Mangal from Khost and Asadullah Timoory from
Herat.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
