Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Scientists Worry About
Political Influence Over Coronavirus Vaccine Project

\url{https://nyti.ms/39ML8yC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/08/04/us/elections/results-arizona-kansas-michigan-missouri-primaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{scientists-worry-about-political-influence-over-coronavirus-vaccine-project}{%
\section{Scientists Worry About Political Influence Over Coronavirus
Vaccine
Project}\label{scientists-worry-about-political-influence-over-coronavirus-vaccine-project}}

Operation Warp Speed has moved along at a rapid clip. But some people
involved in the process fear pressure to deliver an October surprise for
President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/02/us/politics/02dc-virus-vaccine-trump/02dc-virus-vaccine-trump-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sharon-lafraniere}{Sharon
LaFraniere}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-thomas}{Katie
Thomas}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/noah-weiland}{Noah Weiland},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In April, with hospitals overwhelmed and much of the United States in
lockdown, the Department of Health and Human Services produced a
presentation for the White House arguing that rapid development of a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{coronavirus
vaccine} was the best hope to control the pandemic.

``DEADLINE: Enable broad access to the public by October 2020**,**'' the
first slide read, with the date in bold.

Given that it typically takes years to develop a vaccine, the timetable
for the initiative, called
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-vaccine-operation-warp-speed.html}{Operation
Warp Speed}, was incredibly ambitious. With tens of thousands dying and
tens of millions out of work, the crisis demanded an all-out
public-private response, with the government supplying billions of
dollars to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, providing
logistical support and cutting through red tape.

It escaped no one that the proposed deadline also intersected nicely
with President Trump's need to curb the virus before the election in
November.

The ensuing race for a vaccine --- in the middle of a campaign in which
the president's handling of the pandemic is the key issue after he has
spent his time in office
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/climate/trump-coronavirus-climate-science.html}{undermining
science} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/climate/trump-hurricane-dorian-noaa.html}{the
expertise of the federal bureaucracy} --- is now testing the system set
up to ensure safe and effective drugs to a degree never before seen.

Under constant pressure from a White House anxious for good news and a
public desperate for a silver bullet to end the crisis, the government's
researchers are fearful of political intervention in the coming months
and are struggling to ensure that the government maintains the right
balance between speed and rigorous regulation, according to interviews
with administration officials, federal scientists and outside experts.

Even in a less politically charged environment, there would be a fraught
debate about how much to accelerate the process of trials and approval.
The longer that vaccines are tested before being released, the likelier
they are to be safe and effective.

But with 1,000 people dying each day in the United States,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/31/us/coronavirus-school-reopening-risk.html}{schools
finding it difficult to reopen} and the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{deep
recession} inflicting economic pain across the country, the desire to
find a way to return to normal life is powerful and transcends partisan
politics and borders. On Sunday, Russia
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/europe/russia-trials-vaccine-October.html}{announced}
that it planned to start a nationwide inoculation campaign in October
with a vaccine that had yet to complete clinical trials, the latest
evidence of the global potential for cutting corners.

Despite concerted efforts by the Trump administration and a bevy of
pharmaceutical companies it is working with, the original October target
has slipped, with the administration now pushing to have hundreds of
millions of doses available by the end of the year or early 2021.

But experts inside and outside the government still say they fear the
White House will push the Food and Drug Administration to overlook
insufficient data and give at least limited emergency approval to a
vaccine, perhaps for use by specific groups like front-line health care
workers, before the vote on Nov. 3.

``There are a lot of people on the inside of this process who are very
nervous about whether the administration is going to reach their hand
into the Warp Speed bucket, pull out one or two or three vaccines, and
say, `We've tested it on a few thousand people, it looks safe, and now
we are going to roll it out,''' said Dr. Paul A. Offit of the University
of Pennsylvania, who is a member of the Food and Drug Administration's
vaccine advisory committee.

``They are really worried about that,'' he added. ``And they should
be.''

Mr. Trump relentlessly touts progress toward a vaccine, raising hopes of
quick approval.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000007258794/trump-boasts-vaccine-progress-north-carolina.html}{Touring
a North Carolina biotechnology lab} last week, he vowed to ``deliver a
vaccine in record time.'' In
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1283566319405797378}{a
tweet} last month, he explicitly tied vaccines to his re-election hopes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/02/us/politics/02dc-virus-vaccine/merlin_174998298_fafae08f-3300-4d48-b24e-863359750565-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

On a campaign call with supporters in Pennsylvania on Sunday evening,
Mr. Trump said the ``F.D.A. has been great, at my instruction,'' and he
again raised hopes of rapid progress.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-05T03:23:56.561Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-62a8e06b}{The
  military-style uniforms of federal agents who responded to the unrest
  in Portland will be replaced.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``We expect to have a vaccine available very, very early before the end
of the year, far ahead of schedule,'' he said. ``We're very close to
having that finalized.''

The president's son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, who is
helping to steer the re-election campaign from the White House, is a
regular participant in meetings of a board formed to oversee the vaccine
effort.

While White House officials do not specifically mention the election
during the board's discussions, people familiar with the conversations
say they ask regularly about October, a date that hangs over the effort.
Trump campaign advisers privately call a pre-election vaccine ``the holy
grail.''

The Food and Drug Administration's approval of a new vaccine is
typically an exhaustive process, where agency employees meticulously go
through data from clinical trials to review whether the vaccine is both
safe and effective. The threshold for approving vaccines is typically
higher than it is for therapeutic drugs because they will be used in
millions of otherwise healthy people, meaning that even rare side
effects could affect many more people than a drug that treats a specific
illness.

An independent advisory panel of outside experts also weighs in, and
while the agency has the power to make its own decision, it typically
follows the advice of its outside panels. The Food and Drug
Administration's senior regulator has the power to approve or deny
vaccines for emergency use, but that decision could be overridden by the
agency's top leaders, or by the secretary of health and human services.

White House officials said that Mr. Trump would not distort the vaccine
review process to help his campaign. ``The rapid research, development,
trials and eventual distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine is emblematic of
President Trump's highest priority: the health and safety of the
American people,'' said Judd Deere, a White House spokesman. ``It has
nothing to do with politics.''

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, told lawmakers on Friday that he remained
``cautiously optimistic that we will have a vaccine by the end of this
year and as we go into 2021.''

Dr. Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration,
has not ruled out emergency approval of a vaccine.

``We would consider using an emergency use authorization if we felt that
the risks associated with the vaccine were much lower than the risks of
not having a vaccine,'' he told The Journal of the American Medical
Association in an
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdmaU2-C_wE\&feature=youtu.be}{online
interview}.

He also said regulators would certify that any vaccine would meet the
agency's rigorous standards, adding, ``My job as commissioner is to make
sure to the fullest extent possible that any pressure that comes to the
agency is not reflected downward'' onto regulators and scientists
studying the vaccines.

At the same time, a senior administration official refused to promise
that any emergency approval of a vaccine would be vetted through the
Food and Drug Administration's outside advisory panel of experts,
scheduled to meet on Oct. 22.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-vaccine-operation-warp-speed.html}{Operation
Warp Speed got its start in April}, the brainchild of Dr. Peter Marks, a
pencil-thin, bespectacled physician who leads the regulatory unit at the
Food and Drug Administration that approves vaccines and therapies.

A ``Star Trek'' fan, Dr. Marks named the initiative Warp Speed and
pitched it in an April 10 phone call to Alex M. Azar II, the secretary
of health and human services, who quickly embraced it. In a follow-up
phone call a few days later, according to a person familiar with the
discussions, several health officials said the October deadline was
unrealistic; over the next few months, officials began publicly citing
the end of the year or early 2021 as a target.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-azar.html}{With
his job on the line}, Mr. Azar, the target of Mr. Trump's wrath over the
virus\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/29/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-azar.html}{,}
was especially eager to prove his worth to the White House. He teamed up
with Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper, whose department has long
experience with vaccine development and distribution to protect troops.
An expert in complex logistics, Gen. Gustave F. Perna, became the
operation's chief operating officer.

Mr. Kushner, Dr. Deborah L. Birx, the White House coronavirus
coordinator, and others interviewed Dr. Moncef Slaoui, a pharmaceutical
industry veteran, and orchestrated his appointment as chief scientific
adviser despite concerns within the Food and Drug Administration about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/us/politics/vaccine-Slaoui-coronavirus-trump.html}{conflicts
of interest} because of his financial ties to two companies that are
developing a vaccine. Rather than being bothered by the conflict, Mr.
Kushner and others reasoned that it took someone with such industry
experience to oversee the effort.

Image

Dr. Deborah L. Birx and Alex M. Azar II, the health and human services
secretary, are among those overseeing Operation Warp Speed.Credit...Doug
Mills/The New York Times

Dr. Slaoui resigned from the board of Moderna, which has received nearly
\$1 billion in federal support to develop a vaccine. But as of May he
still had nearly \$10 million of stock in GlaxoSmithKline, a partner
with the French drugmaker Sanofi, which last week signed a \$2.1 billion
agreement to produce 100 million doses. Dr. Slaoui, who is working on a
\$1 contract, cleared an ethics review by the Department of Health and
Human Services and has said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/20/health/coronavirus-vaccine-czar.html}{he
is determined to avoid any conflict}.

Shortly after Dr. Slaoui's appointment, Dr. Marks resigned from the
project he conceived and returned full-time to his post as a senior
regulator at the Food and Drug Administration, where he will be the key
decision maker on whether a vaccine merits approval.

The administration has conducted the vaccine hunt with a focus lacking
in much of the rest of its pandemic response. Contracts have been
executed at a brisk pace. Mobile trailers have been speedily delivered
for experimental doses to be administered. When a company was short on
needles, the Pentagon dispatched planes to deliver supplies within 48
hours.

The pharmaceutical companies are reporting the results of their trials
at regular intervals, accelerating the review process. With the
government paying much of the cost, the companies are beginning the
process of manufacturing millions of doses of vaccine essentially on
spec so that they can be distributed quickly if they secure approval.

The process has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/health/cornavirus-vaccine-moderna.html}{moved
at a remarkable clip}. Two vaccine candidates, one developed by Moderna
in conjunction with Dr. Fauci's institute and another by Pfizer, last
week
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/health/moderna-vaccine-covid.html}{began
Phase 3 trials}, the final stage of clinical experimentation. Others are
expected soon.

In Mr. Azar's conference room at the Department of Health and Human
Services headquarters, Mr. Kushner and Dr. Birx join meetings with Mr.
Azar, Mr. Esper and others. Mr. Kushner repeatedly pushes the group to
move faster and has deputized two close associates, Brad Smith and Adam
Boehler, to press the case.

The team has sought to ensure that a variety of different types of
potential vaccines are being pursued to increase the chances that at
least one will work. Dr. Birx has been interested in what is known as a
subunit protein vaccine, and at one point called executives at the
biotechnology company Genentech and asked what they could do. (Warp
Speed is now
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/health/coronavirus-vaccine-novavax.html}{working}
with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/health/covid-19-vaccine-sanofi-gsk.html}{two
companies} pursuing that type of vaccine.)

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, also talks with
pharmaceutical executives. People briefed on the discussions say the
White House has also pushed for progress by the fall on therapeutics ---
drugs to treat people who fall ill to the disease --- including the
possibility of an emergency use authorization for one or more of those
drugs. Late last month, Mr. Trump called the chief executive of
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals to check on the progress of a potential
antibody treatment.

Image

Dr. Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration,
oversees the regulatory approval process for vaccines.Credit...Samuel
Corum for The New York Times

Career officials have assured Dr. Hahn that they would stand behind him
to head off any vaccine decision not based on science. But Dr. Hahn
already lost a measure of credibility with the scientific community for
approving the emergency use of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/health/hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus-trial.html}{hydroxychloroquine
and chloroquine}, two anti-malaria drugs
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/21/us/politics/trump-fact-check-hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus-.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{promoted
by the president} as treatments for the coronavirus over the objections
of his public health advisers. The Food and Drug Administration later
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/15/health/fda-hydroxychloroquine-malaria.html}{revoked
the authorization}, concluding the risks outweighed the benefits.

Scientists have argued that it would be unwise to cut corners on a
vaccine that is to be injected into some 300 million Americans, adding
that a failed effort would
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-anti-vaccine.html}{fuel
public distrust of vaccines generally}.

But a senior White House official, who discussed the matter on the
condition of anonymity, said that it would also be unethical to withhold
an effective vaccine for an extra three or four months while more people
died just to check the boxes of a more routine trial process.

Michael R. Caputo, a spokesman for Mr. Azar, said October was not the
goal.

``Everybody at H.H.S. hopes Operation Warp Speed will achieve 300
million doses of a safe and effective Covid vaccine for Americans by
January 2021,'' he said. ``We know that's optimistic. I have never heard
mention of any other timeline, and certainly not from the secretary.''

``Careless talk about career F.D.A. regulators somehow approving an
unsafe and ineffective vaccine just for politics only undermines
confidence in the public health system,'' he added.

It is not clear that a vaccine approval shortly before the election
would be an ``October surprise'' sufficient to alter the outcome of the
vote. An announcement could give Americans hope that the end is in
sight. But some Republican strategists said that it might not help Mr.
Trump because his opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.,
the presumptive Democratic nominee, would surely continue the vaccine
process if elected.

``Does it turn everything around for him politically? I don't know,''
said Sarah Longwell, a conservative strategist and prominent Republican
opponent of Mr. Trump who regularly conducts focus groups and has found
that public attention is more focused on government relief checks and
school reopenings.

``If the vaccine is an October surprise, there's a lot of other things
that are cutting against'' it as a game-changer, she said.

The drug companies find themselves caught in the middle. While eager to
bring products to market as quickly as possible, they face risks in
moving too quickly in order to fit an election calendar, analysts said.

``They are acutely aware of the political dynamic here,'' said Rob
Smith, the director of Capital Alpha Partners, a research firm. A
vaccine that flopped would jeopardize their broader business, he said,
and it would not make sense ``to take a huge reputational risk not just
for your vaccine but for all the products across your portfolio to
benefit the president politically.''

Dr. Fauci has expressed confidence that the system will hold.

``Historically, the F.D.A. has based their decisions on science,'' he
told a House committee last week. ``They will do so this time also, I am
certain.''

Maggie Haberman contributed reporting and Kitty Bennett contributed
research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Kris Kobach, a polarizing figure in Kansas politics,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/politics/kobach-tlaib.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{lost
    the Senate primary there}, relieving G.O.P. officials who feared he
    could jeopardize a safe seat.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
