Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books}{Books}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books}{Books}\textbar{}`Putin's People' Documents the
Ruthless and Relentless Reach of Kremlin Corruption

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WpuHCQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/books-of-the-times}{Books of The Times}

\hypertarget{putins-people-documents-the-ruthless-and-relentless-reach-of-kremlin-corruption}{%
\section{`Putin's People' Documents the Ruthless and Relentless Reach of
Kremlin
Corruption}\label{putins-people-documents-the-ruthless-and-relentless-reach-of-kremlin-corruption}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-szalai}{Jennifer
Szalai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/21/books/20BOOKBELTON1/20BOOKBELTON1-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Buy Book ▾

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/search?index=books\&tag=NYTBSREV-20\&field-keywords=Putin\%E2\%80\%99s+People+Catherine+Belton}{Amazon}
\item
  \href{https://du-gae-books-dot-nyt-du-prd.appspot.com/buy?title=Putin\%E2\%80\%99s+People\&author=Catherine+Belton}{Apple
  Books}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-11819508?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.barnesandnoble.com\%2Fw\%2F\%3Fean\%3D9780374238711}{Barnes
  and Noble}
\item
  \href{https://www.anrdoezrs.net/click-7990613-35140?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.booksamillion.com\%2Fp\%2FPutin\%25E2\%2580\%2599s\%2BPeople\%2FCatherine\%2BBelton\%2F9780374238711}{Books-A-Million}
\item
  \href{https://bookshop.org/a/3546/9780374238711}{Bookshop}
\item
  \href{https://www.indiebound.org/book/9780374238711?aff=NYT}{Indiebound}
\end{itemize}

When you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we
earn an affiliate commission.

In the years that it took the journalist Catherine Belton to research
and write ``Putin's People,'' her voluminous yet elegant account of
money and power in the Kremlin, a number of her interview subjects tried
various tactics to undermine her work. One of them, ``a close Putin
ally'' apparently alarmed by her questions about Russian President
Vladimir Putin's activities as a K.G.B. agent in Dresden in the 1980s,
emphatically insisted that any rumored links between the K.G.B. and
terrorist organizations had never been proved: ``And you should not try
to do so!'' he warned.

Another source, defending Putin's tenure as the deputy mayor of St.
Petersburg, took a cooler approach. Asked about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/03/24/world/europe/marina-salye-a-russian-politician-who-tried-to-prosecute-putin-dies-at-77.html}{a
local politician named Marina Salye} who found evidence of corruption in
the so-called oil-for-food scheme that Putin oversaw in the early '90s,
he didn't bother to deny her findings; he just rejected the very idea
that her findings mattered. ``This all happened,'' he smugly
acknowledged. ``But this is absolutely normal trading operations. How
can you explain this to a menopausal woman like that?''

Belton suggests that this is the kind of two-pronged strategy the
Kremlin has used to pursue its interests at home and abroad: Deploy
threats, disinformation and violence to prevent damaging secrets from
getting out, or resort to a chilling cynicism that derides everything as
meaningless anyway.

The dauntless Belton, currently an investigative reporter for Reuters
who previously served as the Moscow correspondent for the Financial
Times, allowed neither approach to deter her, talking to figures with
disparate interests on all sides, tracking down documents, following the
money. The result is a meticulously assembled portrait of Putin's
circle, and of the emergence of what she calls ``K.G.B. capitalism'' ---
a form of ruthless wealth accumulation designed to serve the interests
of a Russian state that she calls ``relentless in its reach.''

As central as Putin is to the narrative, he mostly appears as a shadowy
figure --- not particularly creative or charismatic, but cannily able,
like the K.G.B. agent he once was, to mirror people's expectations back
to them. The people who facilitated Putin's rise didn't do so for
particularly idealistic reasons. An ailing Boris Yeltsin and the
oligarchs who thrived in the chaos after the collapse of the Soviet
Union were looking for someone who would preserve their wealth and
protect them from corruption charges. Putin presented himself as someone
who would honor the bargain, but then replaced any Yeltsin-era players
who dared to challenge his tightening grip on power with loyalists he
could call his own.

``Putin's People'' tells the story of a number of figures who eventually
ran afoul of the president's regime. Media moguls like Boris Berezovsky
and Vladimir Gusinsky were stripped of their empires and fled the
country. Belton says the real turning point was the 2004 trial that sent
Mikhail Khodorkovsky --- at one point Russia's richest man, with a
controlling stake in the oil producer Yukos --- to a Siberian prison
camp for 10 years. Putin has since presided over the country and its
resources like a czar, Belton writes, bolstered by a cadre of friendly
oligarchs and secret service agents. Russia's legal system was turned
into a weapon and a fig leaf.

Image

Catherine BeltonCredit....

Putin allowed and even encouraged the oligarchs to accrue vast personal
fortunes, but they were also expected to siphon some money from their
business ventures into the \emph{obschak}, a collective kitty whose
slush funds, Belton says, have been useful in projecting the image of a
powerful Russia on the world stage. The Kremlin's abiding definition of
power was cramped and zero-sum; the resources were plowed into
undermining other countries on the relative cheap, by funding troll
farms, election meddling and extremist movements.

It was an old K.G.B. model adapted for the new era, with Putin pursuing
a nationalist agenda that embraced the country's pre-revolutionary
imperial past. Putin's people had even figured out a way to turn
London's High Court into a tool for their own interests, freezing the
assets of rival oligarchs while British lawyers took fat fees from both
sides.

As much as the West has been a target for the Kremlin's ``active
measures,'' Belton argues that the West has also been complacent and
even complicit. The complacency has taken the form of a blithe belief in
the power of globalization and liberal democracy, a persistent faith
that once Russia opened itself up to international capital and ideas, it
would never look back.

But more mercenary motives were at play, too. Western business interests
recognized how much profit could be made off of Russian oil behemoths
and the giant sums of money sloshing around. (Unsurprisingly,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/14/books/review/dark-towers-deutsche-bank-david-enrich.html}{Deutsche
Bank} --- an institution at the center of many scandals --- has occupied
a crucia\textbf{l} role.) Even when Putin was the beneficiary of such
arrangements, he was contemptuous of them; his ability to use Western
companies to Russia's advantage only confirmed his long-held view ``that
anyone in the West could be bought.''

``Putin's People'' ends with a chapter on Donald Trump, and what Belton
calls the ``network of Russian intelligence operatives, tycoons and
organized-crime associates'' that has encircled him since the early
'90s. The fact that Trump was frequently overwhelmed by debt provided an
opportunity to those who had the cash he desperately needed. Belton
documents how the network used high-end real estate deals to launder
money while evading stricter banking regulations after 9/11. She's
agnostic on whether Trump was a witting accomplice who was aware of how
he was being used. As one former executive from the Trump Organization
put it, ``Donald doesn't do due diligence.''

But Belton does. And while the president may not read much ---
neglecting even those
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/us/politics/russian-bounty-trump.html}{intelligence
briefings} about Russian bounty payments to Taliban militants --- there
are presumably any number of people in the White House and his party who
do.

Still, to read this book is to wonder whether a cynicism has embedded
itself so deeply into the Anglo-American political classes that even the
incriminating information it documents won't make an actionable
difference. A person familiar with Russia's billionaires told Belton
that once corrosion sets in, it's devilishly hard to reverse: ``They
always have three or four different stories, and then it all just gets
lost in the noise.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
