Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}`Never Seen Anything
Like It': Cars Line Up for Miles at Food Banks

\url{https://nyti.ms/3c3hftL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215bf50-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215e660-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215e661-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215e662-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215e663-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1215e664-f52d-11ea-953b-e7f6208efedb\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{never-seen-anything-like-it-cars-line-up-for-miles-at-food-banks}{%
\section{`Never Seen Anything Like It': Cars Line Up for Miles at Food
Banks}\label{never-seen-anything-like-it-cars-line-up-for-miles-at-food-banks}}

Millions are flooding a charitable system that was never intended to
handle a nationwide crisis.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/09/business/09VIRUS-FOODBANKS--p1/merlin_171270876_3e5b6d67-cbe3-4c1e-b612-b7ae51a3b1a3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-kulish}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/22/multimedia/author-nicholas-kulish/author-nicholas-kulish-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-kulish}{Nicholas
Kulish}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 8, 2020Updated May 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In Omaha, a food pantry that typically serves as few as 100 people saw
900 show up on a single day. In Jonesboro, Ark., after a powerful
tornado struck, a food bank received less than half the donations it
expected because nervous families held on to what they had. And in
Washington State and Louisiana, the National Guard has been called in to
help pack food boxes and ensure that the distributions run smoothly.

Demand for food assistance is rising at an extraordinary rate, just as
the nation's food banks are being struck by shortages of both donated
food and volunteer workers.

Uniformed guardsmen help ``take the edge off'' at increasingly tense
distributions of boxes filled with cans of chicken noodle soup, tuna
fish, and pork and beans, said Mike Manning, the chief executive at the
Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank. ``Their presence provides safety for us
during distributions.''

Mr. Manning, who has worked at the food bank for 16 years, including
through Hurricane Katrina, said that he had never witnessed such a
combination of need, scarcity and anxiety. ```Crazy' pretty much sums it
up,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/08/business/08VIRUS-FOODBANKS-masbia/08VIRUS-FOODBANKS-masbia-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I've never seen anything like it,'' said Stacy Dean, vice president
for food assistance policy at the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities, a left-leaning research organization in Washington, D.C. She
has studied food security for more than a quarter century. ``People love
the phrase `the perfect storm,''' she added, ``but nothing is built for
this.''

Feeding America, the nation's largest network of food banks, with more
than 200 affiliates, has projected a \$1.4 billion shortfall in the next
six months alone. Last week, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon,
announced that he was donating \$100 million to the group --- the
\href{https://www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/press-room/jeff-bezos-support-food-banks}{largest
single donation} in its history, but still less than a tenth of what it
needs.

The coronavirus is everywhere in America, and so is the hunger. More
than a million people have viewed drone footage of a miles-long line of
cars waiting for food last week along a bend in the Monongahela River
leading to the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank.

A spokeswoman for the organization, Beth Burrell, said that 800 cars
were served that day. Another distribution this week drew even more.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{23h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{25h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{26h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Tini Mason, 44, was in one of those cars, making his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/us/virus-food-banks-unemployment.html}{first-ever
trip to a food bank}. ``We have to stretch every can, every package,
everything that we have, because we don't know what's around the
corner,'' he said in a telephone interview.

Mr. Mason lost his job as a cook shortly before the outbreak took hold.
The career office where he had been looking for work has closed its
doors, and he is still waiting for his unemployment benefits to come
through. His partner, Crystal Stewart, 49, lost her job at a Residence
Inn by Marriott, then briefly found work at a supermarket. But she
developed a cough and was forced to isolate while awaiting the results
of a swab test. (Her test has since come back negative.)

Mr. Mason described the sight of mile after mile of drivers seeking food
as ``an eye-opener, mind-blowing, an experience I will never forget.''
He and Ms. Stewart said they honked their horn as a gesture of
appreciation for volunteers, then drove home and shared eggs and fruit
with neighbors who do not own cars.

``If I don't have to worry about food, I can worry about clothes, how
I'm going to pay the rent, how I'm going to pay the car note,'' Ms.
Stewart said.

Image

The Food Bank for New York City distribution center in the Bronx. Almost
half the respondents to a recent poll of city residents said they were
concerned about being able to afford food.Credit...Stephen Speranza for
The New York Times

Close to 10 million Americans reported losing their jobs in the second
half of March. The true number of newly unemployed is almost certainly
higher, and many have little or no buffer against the sudden loss in
income. Even before the current economic crisis, the Federal Reserve
found that four in 10 American adults did not have the savings or other
resources to cover an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/23/business/economy/fed-400-dollar-survey.html}{unexpected
\$400 expense}.

While Congress passed a sweeping economic recovery package last month
that promised payments of up to \$1,200 to most American adults, it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-stimulus-package-questions-answers.html}{remains
unclear when the funds will arrive}.

Adding to the problem, school closings across the country mean that many
families who relied on free or subsidized school breakfasts and lunches
to keep their children fed are facing even greater need.

\hypertarget{a-nearly-tenfold-rise-in-food-cost}{%
\subsection{A nearly tenfold rise in food
cost}\label{a-nearly-tenfold-rise-in-food-cost}}

At exactly the moment that more Americans find themselves turning to
food charities, the charities are facing shortages of their own. They
rely on a volunteer labor force, one that skews heavily toward retirees.
Across the country, older volunteers are sheltering at home for their
own health and safety --- sometimes by choice, and sometimes at the
government's direction.

Perhaps more alarmingly, many of the organizations that typically donate
large volumes of food have themselves shut down. Restaurants, hotels and
casinos have closed across the country. And grocery stores, which
ordinarily share unsold inventory that is approaching its best-by date,
have less to donate because their worried customers have been stripping
so many shelves bare.

``When Americans began stocking up on toilet paper, pasta, dried beans
and anything else they could get their hands on, supermarkets no longer
had that excess, nor the time, to do the kind of shelf sweeps to check
what they could give,'' said
\href{http://www.hunter.cuny.edu/sociology/faculty/janet-poppendieck}{Janet
Poppendieck}, an expert on poverty and food assistance. She is also the
author of
``\href{https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/330861/sweet-charity-by-janet-poppendieck/}{Sweet
Charity? Emergency Food and the End of Entitlement}.''

The result is that food banks are buying what they used to receive for
nothing.

At \href{https://foodbankheartland.org/}{Food Bank for the Heartland} in
Omaha, the amount of food donated for March dropped by nearly half. The
food bank typically purchases \$73,000 of food in a month this time of
year but has spent \$675,000 in the past four weeks.

Image

A food bank at the Open Door Church of God in Christ in Brooklyn last
weekend.Credit...Victor J. Blue for The New York Times

In New York City, where more than 19 billion pounds of food are
distributed under normal circumstances, and the virus poses an enormous
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/business/coronavirus-food-supply-kitchens.html}{test
to the system}, 49 percent of respondents to a recent
\href{https://scri.siena.edu/2020/04/06/coronavirus-crisis-changing-life-in-ny/}{Siena
College poll} in the city said they were concerned about being able to
afford food.

\hypertarget{dumpster-origins}{%
\subsection{Dumpster origins}\label{dumpster-origins}}

Food banks are~large warehouses or distribution centers that supply
local storefronts known as food pantries, but also hand food directly to
some individuals. They are a relatively recent feature of American life.

John van Hengel founded the nation's first such
organization,\href{https://www.firstfoodbank.org/about/}{St. Mary's Food
Bank}, in Phoenix in 1967, after a conversation with a woman who looked
for food in dumpsters to feed her children. The concept spread around
the country, and Mr. van Hengel established the national network that
became Feeding America in 1979.

The food-banking sector continued to grow in the early 1980s, according
to Andy Fisher, a food security expert and the author of
``\href{https://www.bighunger.org/}{Big Hunger}.'' That was when
President Ronald Reagan cut back on social-welfare programs and a
recession struck.

Mr. Fisher, who was raised in Youngstown, Ohio, said that with the
emergence of the Midwestern Rust Belt, churches, unions and civic
associations worked to fill what they believed was a temporary need.
``Nobody expected that food banks would continue to 2020,'' Mr. Fisher
said. ``They grew, they expanded, they institutionalized.''

Food banks are distinct from the federal Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program, formerly known as ``food stamps,'' which helps
recipients purchase their own groceries. Roughly 40 million people rely
on the program, though a recent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/us/politics/trumps-food-stamp-cuts.html}{Trump
Administration rule change} was expected to push 700,000 people from the
rolls before the coronavirus crisis began.

By Feeding America's own estimates, SNAP dwarfs food banks as a source
of sustenance for needy Americans, providing nine meals for every one
from its nationwide food-bank network. But the sudden surge of demand
has outstripped SNAP's ability to process new applications.

``It's a highly flexible system, but it is not a system designed to
absorb 10 million people in one month,'' Ms. Dean said.

The number of people who needed help putting food on the table rose
dramatically during the Great Recession. More than 50 million Americans
were food insecure by 2009, according to the Department of Agriculture,
but the numbers had improved significantly as the unemployment rate
declined in recent years, falling to 37 million by 2018.

The most challenging events often come in the wake of natural disasters
like hurricanes, earthquakes or wildfires. But those affect a particular
region, and food banks in other parts of the country can step up with
immediate aid from their inventory. The latest crisis, with layoffs
soaring everywhere simultaneously, will probably test the nation's food
banks like none before.

\hypertarget{hungry-people-are-hungry-each-and-every-day}{%
\subsection{`Hungry people are hungry each and every
day'}\label{hungry-people-are-hungry-each-and-every-day}}

Christina Wong, director of public policy and advocacy at Northwest
Harvest, an independent food bank in Seattle, said that the group was
using up the food in its warehouse, down to what it had secured during a
holiday food drive. The food bank's bulk purchasing operation, used to
paying 25 cents on the dollar, is having to compete on the open market
with grocery stores and is starting to have to pay full cost.

Her group estimated that Washington State had gone from 800,000 people
struggling to put food on the table to 1.6 million since the outbreak
began. Before the crisis, Northwest Harvest had tried to create a
dignified experience for clients, as close as possible to shopping at a
conventional grocery store, with an emphasis on fresh, local food.

``We've reverted to handing out a box of food,'' Ms. Wong said, with
macaroni and cheese, canned chicken and peanut butter in a typical
container.

Image

Since the sudden closing of nearly all of the gambling and tourism
attractions in Las Vegas, the Three Square Food Bank in the city is
spending an extra \$300,000 to \$400,000 a week in cash to buy
food.Credit...Joe Buglewicz for The New York Times

Based in Las Vegas, \href{https://www.threesquare.org/}{Three Square
Food Bank} previously distributed food through 180 pantries across Clark
County. Since the outbreak ---~and the sudden closing of nearly all of
the city's gambling and tourism attractions ---~the organization has
restructured, with 10 pantries and 21 new drive-through distribution
sites.

Larry Scott, Three Square's chief operating officer, said that the group
had expected 200 to 250 cars a day at each drive-through. They're
getting up to 500 to 600 cars instead, with lines up to four miles long.
``Every day, we distribute everything that we bring to a site,'' Mr.
Scott said.

An initial glut of high-quality food from shuttered casinos is basically
gone, Mr. Scott said. Now his food bank is burning through an extra
\$300,000 to \$400,000 a week in cash to buy food.

He said that he saw no relief in sight. ``What we do today has to be
repeated again tomorrow, and the next day, and the next day,'' Mr. Scott
said. ``Hungry people are hungry each and every day.''

Ericka Smrcka, an official at Food Bank for the Heartland in Nebraska,
went to a recent mobile food distribution at a middle school in
neighboring Council Bluffs, Iowa. She and a colleague arrived nearly an
hour before it was scheduled to start to find the streets jammed in
every direction and the police directing traffic.

``We were overwhelmed with tears,'' Ms. Smrcka said. ``Oh, my gosh.
Everywhere we looked, there were just cars.''

The delivery truck had enough boxes of food --- produce, bread and milk
--- for 200 vehicles. Some 400 showed up. Ms. Smrcka recalled feeling
apprehensive at the prospect of walking car to car with nothing more
than a flier describing alternative resources, thinking she might get
yelled at.

But that's not what happened. ``After sitting in their car for an hour
and not receiving any food, they still said thank you,'' she said,
recalling in particular a father who had left work early and picked up
his three daughters, and who departed empty-handed.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
