Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/podcasts/the-daily}{The Daily}\textbar{}A Pandemic-Proof Bubble?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3l3ZGyY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999b780-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999b781-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999b782-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999de90-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999de91-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5999de92-f1f1-11ea-a350-cdd0ea8242e6\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/31:08

-31:08

transcript

\hypertarget{a-pandemic-proof-bubble}{%
\subsection{A Pandemic-Proof Bubble?}\label{a-pandemic-proof-bubble}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-austin-mitchell-and-daniel-guillemette-and-edited-by-larissa-anderson-and-liz-o-baylen}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Austin Mitchell
and Daniel Guillemette, and edited by Larissa Anderson and Liz O.
Baylen}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-austin-mitchell-and-daniel-guillemette-and-edited-by-larissa-anderson-and-liz-o-baylen}}

\hypertarget{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports}{%
\paragraph{The N.B.A. has sealed off its players and staff in a secure
campus in Florida --- a medical and social experiment unlike anything in
the history of
sports.}\label{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports}}

Friday, August 21st, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  announcer\\
  Guard, 6'7 from Slovenia, number 77, Luka Doncic.
\item
  marc stein\\
  This is Marc Stein, N.B.A. reporter for The New York Times. I am
  courtside for first round N.B.A. playoff game, no fans in the building
  apart from virtual fans on the video board. So there's piped in crowd
  noise both in the arena and on television. So they've gone to great
  lengths to try to create some atmosphere in here, here in the N.B.A.
  bubble. It's surreal, really. There's never been a N.B.A. postseason
  like this.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  marc stein\\
  So the game just tipped off. Game is under way.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Today, to finish its regular season and reach the playoffs this week,
the N.B.A. has undertaken a social and medical experiment unlike
anything in the history of sports. My colleague Marc Stein on life
inside the N.B.A. bubble.

It's Friday, August 21.

Marc, just to begin with, tell me where you are.

marc stein

I am at the Coronado Springs resort at Walt Disney World in what is
known as the N.B.A. bubble. There's three hotels that house teams. And
then I'm in the fourth hotel that houses the referees, the media, the
game operations personnel, all the people who kind of make the bubble
go.

michael barbaro

So this hotel room is where you now live.

marc stein

Yeah, behind a big heavy brown door in my 314 square foot hotel room.

michael barbaro

So Marc, how did this grand experiment, this bubble, how did it come to
be?

marc stein

Well, first you have to understand that this has been a very difficult
season for the N.B.A. on a lot of fronts.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  {[}NON-ENGLISH SPEECH{]} As a Rockets fan, I'm very disappointed. As a
  Chinese, I feel very ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

In early October, as teams were heading to China for exhibition play ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Daryl Morey, General Manager of the Houston Rockets N.B.A. team,
  tweeted, fight for freedom. Stand with Hong Kong.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The general manager of the Houston Rockets, he posted in support of
pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong.

michael barbaro

Right.

marc stein

And ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Big sponsors, like Tencent, saying that they would suspend live
  streaming any of the Rockets games, so a lot of money's at stake.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

It became so costly and controversial for the league's business
relationships in China. Adam Silver, the N.B.A. Commissioner, estimated
the loss from that tweet to be in the hundreds of millions. Hundreds of
millions the league lost from one tweet. So after this very
controversial start to the season ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Heartbreaking news today, David Stern passing away at the age of 77.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- David Stern, its longtime former commissioner, died on January 1st.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  He was a marketing genius, just really grew our brand.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

And shortly after that, just within weeks ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  And we're following very tragic, very sad breaking news, the N.B.A.
  legend Kobe Bryant has died in a helicopter crash in the city of ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- was the Kobe Bryant tragedy, the helicopter crash that killed Kobe
Bryant, his daughter, seven other people aboard.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Bryant had one of the biggest careers in N.B.A. history, starring for
  ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

His death was just an immeasurable loss for the league.

michael barbaro

Right. And as if all that was not enough, then the pandemic strikes.

marc stein

Right. So the N.B.A., it actually has an office in China. So league
officials had been tracking the coronavirus pretty aggressively. And
just to give you an idea of how quickly this thing did bring the league
to a halt, on March 11th, it was announced that the Golden State
Warriors and the Brooklyn Nets were going to play a game the next day
without fans. And I was actually on a plane that night flying to San
Francisco. Because I was assigned to cover that game, which would have
been the first in N.B.A. history without fans. That night, Rudy Gobert
of the Utah Jazz tested positive for the coronavirus in Oklahoma City.
And the season was suspended. It happened that quick.

michael barbaro

Right. I remember this being one of the first data points for the whole
country that the pandemic was going to be very serious and significant.
Was there any thinking at that point, Marc, of well, that's that? You
know, coronavirus is here, no season. I guess we'll resume play when the
pandemic is over.

marc stein

No question. In April, and even into May, there was great skepticism in
all corners of the league that there just might not be a way to
resurrect what's left of the 2019 season. But the reality is, like all
businesses, there was great financial incentive for all parties in the
league to find a way to bring this season to a conclusion. With no
playoffs, the N.B.A. would lose an estimated \$1 billion in television
revenue.

michael barbaro

Wow.

marc stein

And the way N.B.A. finances work, it's a 50-50 revenue split between the
teams and its players. So if that \$1 billion in revenue is lost, the
players shoulder 50 percent of that in lost salaries.

michael barbaro

Right. I mean there's literally a billion reasons why everybody involved
in the sport would want to make sure that they could keep playing.

marc stein

Right. So for all the financial incentive that all these parties had, it
then becomes a question of, how do you pull this off? And that's an even
tougher question for a basketball league probably than any other team
sport you can name. Because you're indoors and face to face, very
physical, close proximity for more than two hours. And that is something
the N.B.A. had to contemplate from the start. How do you bring everyone
back in the middle of a pandemic, in conditions that theoretically could
promote the spread of the virus?

michael barbaro

Mhm.

marc stein

So what the league did was, it's been in pretty heavy consultation with
government health officials. And they reached the conclusion that the
only way to try this was to construct a so-called bubble.

A tightly controlled campus where the league governed everything, who's
allowed in, who's allowed out, how and when they're allowed to move, to
create a village that, if everything went well, would at least give them
a chance of keeping the virus out and get the season to the finish line.

michael barbaro

Right. And of course, once you settle on the bubble, you have to figure
out where you're going to build the bubble.

marc stein

The league did get a lot of pitches from a lot of places. But pretty
quickly, the N.B.A. zeroed in on two locales, Las Vegas, where the
league does a lot of business, and the second option was Disney World.
And that owes greatly to the N.B.A.`s very deep relationship with Disney
which owns ESPN. So you have the business ties. But you also have the
layout of Disney World with all the requisite arenas to stage all these
games but also hotel properties for the teams to stay and all of this
behind the same set of gates. And so the N.B.A. chose Disney World.

michael barbaro

Marc, I'm curious how the N.B.A. sold this to the players. This pitch
doesn't sound all that appealing. Hey, we have this great idea, enter
this bubble village, not just for days or weeks but for months, a whole
season. And we hope you don't get the virus. We can't promise you you
won't get the virus. That doesn't sound all that appealing.

marc stein

It was an undoubtedly tough sell. There's safety concerns. You know,
families will not be allowed into the bubble until after the first round
of the playoffs at the end of August. So you're asking players to go
weeks without seeing anyone from their family. And then---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Being a bystander is no longer acceptable.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

After the George Floyd killing and when protests took hold nationwide,
you saw many N.B.A. players taking part in these protests.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  ---do it. And no, if you don't speak up on these issues, you a part
  --- you just as bad.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Jaylen Brown of the Boston Celtics, Malcolm Brogdon of the Indiana
Pacers.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  We have a moment in time. People are going to look back, our kids are
  going to look back at this and say, you were a part of that.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

There were so many players who really got involved at the forefront of
the Black Lives Matter movement.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  No matter the color of your skin, where you're from --- And I feel
  like justice will be served, and changes will be made. You don't know
  the right side of the history man. Yes. {[}CHEERING{]} You know what?
  Black lives matter, baby, let's go. {[}CHEERING{]}
\end{itemize}

marc stein

And I think as time wore on, a majority of players basically came to the
conclusion that by going to Walt Disney World and seizing upon the
platform available that that could actually amplify their message.

michael barbaro

Huh, that's really interesting. So in their minds, playing the sport,
resuming the season would give them a bigger megaphone to talk about
race, talk about police brutality. And so that becomes an incentive to
revive the season.

marc stein

Ultimately, yes. That's where the majority of players, that's the place
they ultimately reached. There is so much media coverage of the N.B.A.
Use the platform that a resumed N.B.A. season would give by speaking out
after games, after practices to really broadcast their message.

michael barbaro

So with everyone on board, Marc, I wonder if you can set the scene for
us of how this actually gets under way.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Day one on my trip to the bubble. Wubble the bubble the bubble.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

So teams started arriving on July 7th. The top 22 teams in the league
were invited to the restart. They arrive in shifts.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Everybody got hella bags. We literally going to live somewhere for
  three months.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

But basically by the end of that week, you had more than 800 players,
coaches, team staff members ready to spill into the bubble and embark on
what's not only the most ambitious sporting experiment we've maybe ever
seen in North American team sports but also a grand social experiment as
well.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  For one goal though, to win a championship baby.
\end{itemize}

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

We'll be right back.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  All right, let's see how is that hotel bubbles look like. That's it.
  Oh, my god, lord help us.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

So Marc, take us inside of this bubble. Once the players arrive, what
happens?

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  This my room. We got to stay here til Saturday, 48 hours.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The first thing is they had to get through their quarantines.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  First season, Game of Thrones man, started all over again.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Basically, it required any player here to register two negative
coronavirus tests which took anywhere from 36 to 48 hours.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  I don't have a fork.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Which was a new and widely uncomfortable experience.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  Oh, maybe I'm supposed to use the lid of the spoon.

  No. Who do I call about this?
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And what happens once these players pass these tests and are out of
quarantine?

marc stein

Well, priority number one was getting back into basketball shape after a
layoff of four plus months with no team activities. But even so, that's
only going to consume three, four hours a day tops. It left a lot of
downtime to fill and nowhere to go.

michael barbaro

Tell me about the rules that are in operation for the players inside the
bubble.

marc stein

So after the agreement was struck between the N.B.A. and the players
association to come back, the league assembled a 113 page PDF full of
rules and restrictions that would govern bubble life. For example, if a
socially distanced card game takes place for players on any team, they
were required to dispose of that deck of cards when the card game was
over. If players wanted to play , they could play singles but not
doubles. But the two biggies in that 113 pages are the daily testing for
everyone on campus. Because the league believes that with no vaccine,
daily testing essentially operates as the closest thing it has to a
vaccine but also no contact with the outside world. And for the N.B.A.,
that's an absolute. So Richaun Holmes of the Sacramento Kings, he was
ordered to go back to quarantine for an extra 10 days. And the reason
why, because he arranged a food delivery that was unauthorized and
crossed a border to pick up that food delivery order, which he later
revealed to be an order of chicken wings. And when the league found out,
Holmes was subjected to an extra ten days of quarantine all by himself
in his room. And that was kind of a message sent to everyone about how
serious the league was taking the restrictions they had put in place.

michael barbaro

That is a very costly set of wings.

marc stein

Costly in the extreme. Because I promise you, you do not want to get
sent back for extra days in quarantine. I would also say, the sense I
get from a lot of players is they feel a great responsibility to their
teams. Nobody wants to get themselves in a position where they're not
able to play in a playoff game because they broke the rules.

michael barbaro

And Marc, what about you? How long have you been there now?

marc stein

Forty days, but who's counting?

michael barbaro

And what has your non-player experience been like?

marc stein

As a member of the media, it's probably most accurate to say that I live
in a bubble within the bubble. Because there's really only one square
mile of campus that media members are allowed to visit. There's a
Groundhog Day element to this for media members. Because every morning
starts the same.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  marc stein\\
  Let's see if I can get this done. Going to my My Health app right now.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The first thing you have to do when you wake up, you have to record your
temperature and your oxygen saturation readings. Those have to be
entered into a league issued health app.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  All right. I am connected.

  I'm at a 97.9, so that's a good reading. My oxygen saturation is also
  as it should be.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

You can't go anywhere in the bubble without those readings being
inputted into a league issued magic band, which is a thick gray
wristband that we all wear like a watch. And you have to scan
everywhere, any entry point in the bubble.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  Now it's time to go get my tests. {[}KNOCKING{]} How you doing?
\item
  speaker 1\\
  How you doing?
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Right here.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Right there.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Could you just?
\item
  marc stein\\
  Oh yeah, I got to do the band, sorry. {[}BEEPING{]}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Let's see. Let's see, Marc.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

What this entails is ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  How we feeling this morning?
\item
  marc stein\\
  I'm all right.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- three very shallow swabs of the throat and one shallow swab of each
nostril.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  That's it.
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Thank you.
\item
  marc stein\\
  Thank you.
\item
  speaker 2\\
  Have a great day.
\item
  marc stein\\
  You too.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

We also have proximity sensors that have to be charged overnight. And
that we ---

michael barbaro

What?

marc stein

--- connect to our credentials. Because if you spend more than 10
seconds within six feet of someone, as long as their proximity sensor is
charged and your proximity sensor is charged, those alarms will start to
chirp after 10 seconds. And that's ---

michael barbaro

This is amazing.

marc stein

That's a frequent occurrence on bus rides. We have to take buses from
where the media's staying to the game venues. And our proximity sensors
tend to create quite a symphony of chirping. And this is also true at
postgame interviews. Because there's no way at a postgame interview to
maintain six feet of distance between all the reporters that are trying
to get as close to the players as we're allowed to get. So there's a lot
of chirping going on.

michael barbaro

Have you found yourself at all tempted to bend the rules? I can't
imagine you haven't.

marc stein

It's a challenge. There are certainly times when temptation strikes.
There was actually one time where I was going to cover an Orlando Magic
practice on a Sunday morning. And I was outside the Magic's practice
waiting for admittance. And I was near the Boston Celtics' meal room
where they were being served a glorious Sunday morning breakfast from a
big hotel resort breakfast station. And as lunch was approaching, and
they started breaking down the breakfast station, there was this very
inviting tub full of crispy bacon that was clearly being taken away to
be disposed of. And I must confess, the thought did cross my mind, do I
risk it all here? Do I try to sneak over there and get some of that for
myself before they take it all away? But I behaved. I refrained. And I'm
pretty good at following the rules.

michael barbaro

You're talking to a bacon lover. So I very much appreciate this lure,
this temptation you're describing. But with all these rules in place,
all these monitoring systems, all this enforcement and in your case
self-restraint, how effectively has all of this worked inside the
bubble?

marc stein

The N.B.A. would tell you that so far their expectations have been
exceeded. They're cautiously optimistic that this ambitious plan is
working. Teams started getting here on July 7. Actual games began on
July 30. The playoffs began Monday, August 17. And players obviously are
not wearing masks on the floor. They're playing basketball as they
normally would, in very close proximity, sweating all over each other.
And the league, to this point, has returned no confirmed positive tests.
So, so far, more than 40 days in, it's working.

michael barbaro

I have to say that that's pretty astonishing.

marc stein

It is surprising. But I think it also --- those numbers reinforce what
the N.B.A. believe that if you didn't take the extreme measures that
they've taken, there was no chance at establishing a record like that.

michael barbaro

But Marc, do you feel like people inside the bubble, especially the
players, and the staff, and the coaches, the people this is really
designed to protect, do you find them grappling with this question of
essentially that kind of elite nature of this separateness that they
have created? I mean, because outside of that bubble, especially in the
state of Florida and beyond, is a world of tremendous suffering in this
moment and exposure to this virus and in high transmission rates. And
inside is this truly sealed off protected zone of very wealthy athletes.

marc stein

I don't think there's any question that for the league there is an
optics component here that is uncomfortable. I can't really speak for
the players. But I know I feel it personally. When I landed here on July
12, Florida had just recorded a single day state record for positive
cases.

michael barbaro

Right.

marc stein

And then, as a reporter, I'm being ushered inside a bubble. So for me
getting tested every day, it is a little bit uncomfortable on some
levels. And this does come at a great expense for the N.B.A.. The latest
estimate I received was \$180 million for the league to operate the
campus. And not every organization in the world is in position to spend
that kind of money to do that.

michael barbaro

Right. I mean not at all. I think it's pretty fitting that we keep
calling this the bubble. It is a bubble. And it's very fitting that this
was constructed inside the magical kingdom. Because there is something
kind of fantasy like about what you're describing. And it does not feel
replicable for the rest of us. It feels like something that can be done
only by a highly profitable sport and very well-off athletes.

marc stein

Yeah. It's really the N.B.A.`s version of ``It's a Small World.'' It's
unprecedented. It's historic. And that's why, as a journalist who's
covered this league for almost 30 years, I had to be here to see it. But
when you look at it critically, it also hits home what a dire state this
country is in, and the lengths that the N.B.A. has to go to just to get
to the finish line of this season. You know, I have a 17-year-old and a
14-year-old. And it's quite clear that there isn't going to be a magical
bubble that can be created to get them back in their classrooms this
fall. And that's a realization that being here hits you every day. This
village that the N.B.A. has built, it's not something that can be
readily duplicated. It's not something that's going to be available to
the masses that so badly need it.

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

Well Marc, thank you very much. And we'll see you whenever it is you
leave the bubble.

marc stein

Thanks for having me.

michael barbaro

The first round of the N.B.A. playoffs will continue today with four
games scheduled inside of the bubble.

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

Here's what else you need to know today. On Thursday, federal officials
arrested Steve Bannon, a former top advisor to President Trump and the
architect of his 2016 election victory, on charges of stealing hundreds
of thousands of dollars from donors. Those donors believed that they
were funding the president's signature initiative of building a wall
along the US border with Mexico. Instead, according to the charges,
Bannon used much of the money for personal expenses, becoming the latest
Trump advisor to be charged with a crime. And ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  Good evening, Ella Baker, a giant of the civil rights movement, left
  us with this wisdom, give people light and they will find the way.
  Give people light, those are words for our time. The current president
  has cloaked American darkness for much too long, too much anger, too
  much fear, too much division.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During the fourth and final night of the Democratic National Convention,
Joe Biden formally accepted his party's nomination for president,
promising to end what he described as a dark and deadly chapter in
American history.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  Here and now, I give you my word. If you entrust me with the
  presidency, I will draw on the best of us not the worst. I'll be an
  ally of the light not the darkness.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Biden said he was prepared for a presidency that would confront four
crises, a virus, widespread unemployment, a racial reckoning, and
climate change, at once and pledged to restore honor and decency to the
White House.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  You know American history tells us that it's been in our darkest
  moments that we've made our greatest progress, that we found the
  light. In this dark moment, I believe we're poised to make great
  progress again. That we can find the light once more.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

The Daily is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young,
Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg,
Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, MJ Davis Lin, Austin
Mitchell, Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel
Guillemette, Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Bianca Giaever,
Asthaa Chaturvedi, Rachelle Bonja, and Liz O Baylen. Our theme music is
by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam
Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Nora Keller,
Mahima Chablani, and Des Ibekwe. That's it for The Daily. I'm Michael
Barbaro. See you on Monday.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-daily}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/01/29/podcasts/the-daily-album-art/the-daily-album-art-square320-v4.png}The
Daily}Subscribe:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/id1200361736}{Apple
  Podcasts}
\item
  \href{https://www.google.com/podcasts?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9yc3MuYXJ0MTkuY29tL3RoZS1kYWlseQ\%3D\%3D}{Google
  Podcasts}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{a-pandemic-proof-bubble-1}{%
\section{A Pandemic-Proof Bubble?}\label{a-pandemic-proof-bubble-1}}

\hypertarget{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports-1}{%
\subsection{The N.B.A. has sealed off its players and staff in a secure
campus in Florida --- a medical and social experiment unlike anything in
the history of
sports.}\label{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports-1}}

Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Austin Mitchell and Daniel
Guillemette, and edited by Larissa Anderson and Liz O. Baylen

Transcript

transcript

Back to The Daily

bars

0:00/31:08

-0:00

transcript

\hypertarget{a-pandemic-proof-bubble-2}{%
\subsection{A Pandemic-Proof Bubble?}\label{a-pandemic-proof-bubble-2}}

\hypertarget{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-austin-mitchell-and-daniel-guillemette-and-edited-by-larissa-anderson-and-liz-o-baylen-1}{%
\subsubsection{Hosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Austin Mitchell
and Daniel Guillemette, and edited by Larissa Anderson and Liz O.
Baylen}\label{hosted-by-michael-barbaro-produced-by-austin-mitchell-and-daniel-guillemette-and-edited-by-larissa-anderson-and-liz-o-baylen-1}}

\hypertarget{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports-2}{%
\paragraph{The N.B.A. has sealed off its players and staff in a secure
campus in Florida --- a medical and social experiment unlike anything in
the history of
sports.}\label{the-nba-has-sealed-off-its-players-and-staff-in-a-secure-campus-in-florida--a-medical-and-social-experiment-unlike-anything-in-the-history-of-sports-2}}

Friday, August 21st, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  announcer\\
  Guard, 6'7 from Slovenia, number 77, Luka Doncic.
\item
  marc stein\\
  This is Marc Stein, N.B.A. reporter for The New York Times. I am
  courtside for first round N.B.A. playoff game, no fans in the building
  apart from virtual fans on the video board. So there's piped in crowd
  noise both in the arena and on television. So they've gone to great
  lengths to try to create some atmosphere in here, here in the N.B.A.
  bubble. It's surreal, really. There's never been a N.B.A. postseason
  like this.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

From The New York Times, I'm Michael Barbaro. This is ``The Daily.''

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  marc stein\\
  So the game just tipped off. Game is under way.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Today, to finish its regular season and reach the playoffs this week,
the N.B.A. has undertaken a social and medical experiment unlike
anything in the history of sports. My colleague Marc Stein on life
inside the N.B.A. bubble.

It's Friday, August 21.

Marc, just to begin with, tell me where you are.

marc stein

I am at the Coronado Springs resort at Walt Disney World in what is
known as the N.B.A. bubble. There's three hotels that house teams. And
then I'm in the fourth hotel that houses the referees, the media, the
game operations personnel, all the people who kind of make the bubble
go.

michael barbaro

So this hotel room is where you now live.

marc stein

Yeah, behind a big heavy brown door in my 314 square foot hotel room.

michael barbaro

So Marc, how did this grand experiment, this bubble, how did it come to
be?

marc stein

Well, first you have to understand that this has been a very difficult
season for the N.B.A. on a lot of fronts.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  {[}NON-ENGLISH SPEECH{]} As a Rockets fan, I'm very disappointed. As a
  Chinese, I feel very ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

In early October, as teams were heading to China for exhibition play ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Daryl Morey, General Manager of the Houston Rockets N.B.A. team,
  tweeted, fight for freedom. Stand with Hong Kong.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The general manager of the Houston Rockets, he posted in support of
pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong.

michael barbaro

Right.

marc stein

And ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Big sponsors, like Tencent, saying that they would suspend live
  streaming any of the Rockets games, so a lot of money's at stake.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

It became so costly and controversial for the league's business
relationships in China. Adam Silver, the N.B.A. Commissioner, estimated
the loss from that tweet to be in the hundreds of millions. Hundreds of
millions the league lost from one tweet. So after this very
controversial start to the season ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Heartbreaking news today, David Stern passing away at the age of 77.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- David Stern, its longtime former commissioner, died on January 1st.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  He was a marketing genius, just really grew our brand.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

And shortly after that, just within weeks ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  And we're following very tragic, very sad breaking news, the N.B.A.
  legend Kobe Bryant has died in a helicopter crash in the city of ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- was the Kobe Bryant tragedy, the helicopter crash that killed Kobe
Bryant, his daughter, seven other people aboard.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Bryant had one of the biggest careers in N.B.A. history, starring for
  ---
\end{itemize}

marc stein

His death was just an immeasurable loss for the league.

michael barbaro

Right. And as if all that was not enough, then the pandemic strikes.

marc stein

Right. So the N.B.A., it actually has an office in China. So league
officials had been tracking the coronavirus pretty aggressively. And
just to give you an idea of how quickly this thing did bring the league
to a halt, on March 11th, it was announced that the Golden State
Warriors and the Brooklyn Nets were going to play a game the next day
without fans. And I was actually on a plane that night flying to San
Francisco. Because I was assigned to cover that game, which would have
been the first in N.B.A. history without fans. That night, Rudy Gobert
of the Utah Jazz tested positive for the coronavirus in Oklahoma City.
And the season was suspended. It happened that quick.

michael barbaro

Right. I remember this being one of the first data points for the whole
country that the pandemic was going to be very serious and significant.
Was there any thinking at that point, Marc, of well, that's that? You
know, coronavirus is here, no season. I guess we'll resume play when the
pandemic is over.

marc stein

No question. In April, and even into May, there was great skepticism in
all corners of the league that there just might not be a way to
resurrect what's left of the 2019 season. But the reality is, like all
businesses, there was great financial incentive for all parties in the
league to find a way to bring this season to a conclusion. With no
playoffs, the N.B.A. would lose an estimated \$1 billion in television
revenue.

michael barbaro

Wow.

marc stein

And the way N.B.A. finances work, it's a 50-50 revenue split between the
teams and its players. So if that \$1 billion in revenue is lost, the
players shoulder 50 percent of that in lost salaries.

michael barbaro

Right. I mean there's literally a billion reasons why everybody involved
in the sport would want to make sure that they could keep playing.

marc stein

Right. So for all the financial incentive that all these parties had, it
then becomes a question of, how do you pull this off? And that's an even
tougher question for a basketball league probably than any other team
sport you can name. Because you're indoors and face to face, very
physical, close proximity for more than two hours. And that is something
the N.B.A. had to contemplate from the start. How do you bring everyone
back in the middle of a pandemic, in conditions that theoretically could
promote the spread of the virus?

michael barbaro

Mhm.

marc stein

So what the league did was, it's been in pretty heavy consultation with
government health officials. And they reached the conclusion that the
only way to try this was to construct a so-called bubble.

A tightly controlled campus where the league governed everything, who's
allowed in, who's allowed out, how and when they're allowed to move, to
create a village that, if everything went well, would at least give them
a chance of keeping the virus out and get the season to the finish line.

michael barbaro

Right. And of course, once you settle on the bubble, you have to figure
out where you're going to build the bubble.

marc stein

The league did get a lot of pitches from a lot of places. But pretty
quickly, the N.B.A. zeroed in on two locales, Las Vegas, where the
league does a lot of business, and the second option was Disney World.
And that owes greatly to the N.B.A.`s very deep relationship with Disney
which owns ESPN. So you have the business ties. But you also have the
layout of Disney World with all the requisite arenas to stage all these
games but also hotel properties for the teams to stay and all of this
behind the same set of gates. And so the N.B.A. chose Disney World.

michael barbaro

Marc, I'm curious how the N.B.A. sold this to the players. This pitch
doesn't sound all that appealing. Hey, we have this great idea, enter
this bubble village, not just for days or weeks but for months, a whole
season. And we hope you don't get the virus. We can't promise you you
won't get the virus. That doesn't sound all that appealing.

marc stein

It was an undoubtedly tough sell. There's safety concerns. You know,
families will not be allowed into the bubble until after the first round
of the playoffs at the end of August. So you're asking players to go
weeks without seeing anyone from their family. And then---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Being a bystander is no longer acceptable.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

After the George Floyd killing and when protests took hold nationwide,
you saw many N.B.A. players taking part in these protests.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  ---do it. And no, if you don't speak up on these issues, you a part
  --- you just as bad.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Jaylen Brown of the Boston Celtics, Malcolm Brogdon of the Indiana
Pacers.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  We have a moment in time. People are going to look back, our kids are
  going to look back at this and say, you were a part of that.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

There were so many players who really got involved at the forefront of
the Black Lives Matter movement.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  No matter the color of your skin, where you're from --- And I feel
  like justice will be served, and changes will be made. You don't know
  the right side of the history man. Yes. {[}CHEERING{]} You know what?
  Black lives matter, baby, let's go. {[}CHEERING{]}
\end{itemize}

marc stein

And I think as time wore on, a majority of players basically came to the
conclusion that by going to Walt Disney World and seizing upon the
platform available that that could actually amplify their message.

michael barbaro

Huh, that's really interesting. So in their minds, playing the sport,
resuming the season would give them a bigger megaphone to talk about
race, talk about police brutality. And so that becomes an incentive to
revive the season.

marc stein

Ultimately, yes. That's where the majority of players, that's the place
they ultimately reached. There is so much media coverage of the N.B.A.
Use the platform that a resumed N.B.A. season would give by speaking out
after games, after practices to really broadcast their message.

michael barbaro

So with everyone on board, Marc, I wonder if you can set the scene for
us of how this actually gets under way.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Day one on my trip to the bubble. Wubble the bubble the bubble.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

So teams started arriving on July 7th. The top 22 teams in the league
were invited to the restart. They arrive in shifts.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  Everybody got hella bags. We literally going to live somewhere for
  three months.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

But basically by the end of that week, you had more than 800 players,
coaches, team staff members ready to spill into the bubble and embark on
what's not only the most ambitious sporting experiment we've maybe ever
seen in North American team sports but also a grand social experiment as
well.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  For one goal though, to win a championship baby.
\end{itemize}

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

We'll be right back.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  All right, let's see how is that hotel bubbles look like. That's it.
  Oh, my god, lord help us.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

So Marc, take us inside of this bubble. Once the players arrive, what
happens?

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  This my room. We got to stay here til Saturday, 48 hours.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The first thing is they had to get through their quarantines.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  First season, Game of Thrones man, started all over again.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Basically, it required any player here to register two negative
coronavirus tests which took anywhere from 36 to 48 hours.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording\\
  I don't have a fork.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Which was a new and widely uncomfortable experience.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  archived recording\\
  Oh, maybe I'm supposed to use the lid of the spoon.

  No. Who do I call about this?
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

And what happens once these players pass these tests and are out of
quarantine?

marc stein

Well, priority number one was getting back into basketball shape after a
layoff of four plus months with no team activities. But even so, that's
only going to consume three, four hours a day tops. It left a lot of
downtime to fill and nowhere to go.

michael barbaro

Tell me about the rules that are in operation for the players inside the
bubble.

marc stein

So after the agreement was struck between the N.B.A. and the players
association to come back, the league assembled a 113 page PDF full of
rules and restrictions that would govern bubble life. For example, if a
socially distanced card game takes place for players on any team, they
were required to dispose of that deck of cards when the card game was
over. If players wanted to play , they could play singles but not
doubles. But the two biggies in that 113 pages are the daily testing for
everyone on campus. Because the league believes that with no vaccine,
daily testing essentially operates as the closest thing it has to a
vaccine but also no contact with the outside world. And for the N.B.A.,
that's an absolute. So Richaun Holmes of the Sacramento Kings, he was
ordered to go back to quarantine for an extra 10 days. And the reason
why, because he arranged a food delivery that was unauthorized and
crossed a border to pick up that food delivery order, which he later
revealed to be an order of chicken wings. And when the league found out,
Holmes was subjected to an extra ten days of quarantine all by himself
in his room. And that was kind of a message sent to everyone about how
serious the league was taking the restrictions they had put in place.

michael barbaro

That is a very costly set of wings.

marc stein

Costly in the extreme. Because I promise you, you do not want to get
sent back for extra days in quarantine. I would also say, the sense I
get from a lot of players is they feel a great responsibility to their
teams. Nobody wants to get themselves in a position where they're not
able to play in a playoff game because they broke the rules.

michael barbaro

And Marc, what about you? How long have you been there now?

marc stein

Forty days, but who's counting?

michael barbaro

And what has your non-player experience been like?

marc stein

As a member of the media, it's probably most accurate to say that I live
in a bubble within the bubble. Because there's really only one square
mile of campus that media members are allowed to visit. There's a
Groundhog Day element to this for media members. Because every morning
starts the same.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  marc stein\\
  Let's see if I can get this done. Going to my My Health app right now.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

The first thing you have to do when you wake up, you have to record your
temperature and your oxygen saturation readings. Those have to be
entered into a league issued health app.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  All right. I am connected.

  I'm at a 97.9, so that's a good reading. My oxygen saturation is also
  as it should be.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

You can't go anywhere in the bubble without those readings being
inputted into a league issued magic band, which is a thick gray
wristband that we all wear like a watch. And you have to scan
everywhere, any entry point in the bubble.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  Now it's time to go get my tests. {[}KNOCKING{]} How you doing?
\item
  speaker 1\\
  How you doing?
\end{itemize}

marc stein

Right here.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Right there.
\item
  archived recording\\
  Could you just?
\item
  marc stein\\
  Oh yeah, I got to do the band, sorry. {[}BEEPING{]}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Let's see. Let's see, Marc.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

What this entails is ---

\begin{itemize}
\item
  speaker 1\\
  How we feeling this morning?
\item
  marc stein\\
  I'm all right.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

--- three very shallow swabs of the throat and one shallow swab of each
nostril.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  marc stein\\
  That's it.
\item
  speaker 1\\
  Thank you.
\item
  marc stein\\
  Thank you.
\item
  speaker 2\\
  Have a great day.
\item
  marc stein\\
  You too.
\end{itemize}

marc stein

We also have proximity sensors that have to be charged overnight. And
that we ---

michael barbaro

What?

marc stein

--- connect to our credentials. Because if you spend more than 10
seconds within six feet of someone, as long as their proximity sensor is
charged and your proximity sensor is charged, those alarms will start to
chirp after 10 seconds. And that's ---

michael barbaro

This is amazing.

marc stein

That's a frequent occurrence on bus rides. We have to take buses from
where the media's staying to the game venues. And our proximity sensors
tend to create quite a symphony of chirping. And this is also true at
postgame interviews. Because there's no way at a postgame interview to
maintain six feet of distance between all the reporters that are trying
to get as close to the players as we're allowed to get. So there's a lot
of chirping going on.

michael barbaro

Have you found yourself at all tempted to bend the rules? I can't
imagine you haven't.

marc stein

It's a challenge. There are certainly times when temptation strikes.
There was actually one time where I was going to cover an Orlando Magic
practice on a Sunday morning. And I was outside the Magic's practice
waiting for admittance. And I was near the Boston Celtics' meal room
where they were being served a glorious Sunday morning breakfast from a
big hotel resort breakfast station. And as lunch was approaching, and
they started breaking down the breakfast station, there was this very
inviting tub full of crispy bacon that was clearly being taken away to
be disposed of. And I must confess, the thought did cross my mind, do I
risk it all here? Do I try to sneak over there and get some of that for
myself before they take it all away? But I behaved. I refrained. And I'm
pretty good at following the rules.

michael barbaro

You're talking to a bacon lover. So I very much appreciate this lure,
this temptation you're describing. But with all these rules in place,
all these monitoring systems, all this enforcement and in your case
self-restraint, how effectively has all of this worked inside the
bubble?

marc stein

The N.B.A. would tell you that so far their expectations have been
exceeded. They're cautiously optimistic that this ambitious plan is
working. Teams started getting here on July 7. Actual games began on
July 30. The playoffs began Monday, August 17. And players obviously are
not wearing masks on the floor. They're playing basketball as they
normally would, in very close proximity, sweating all over each other.
And the league, to this point, has returned no confirmed positive tests.
So, so far, more than 40 days in, it's working.

michael barbaro

I have to say that that's pretty astonishing.

marc stein

It is surprising. But I think it also --- those numbers reinforce what
the N.B.A. believe that if you didn't take the extreme measures that
they've taken, there was no chance at establishing a record like that.

michael barbaro

But Marc, do you feel like people inside the bubble, especially the
players, and the staff, and the coaches, the people this is really
designed to protect, do you find them grappling with this question of
essentially that kind of elite nature of this separateness that they
have created? I mean, because outside of that bubble, especially in the
state of Florida and beyond, is a world of tremendous suffering in this
moment and exposure to this virus and in high transmission rates. And
inside is this truly sealed off protected zone of very wealthy athletes.

marc stein

I don't think there's any question that for the league there is an
optics component here that is uncomfortable. I can't really speak for
the players. But I know I feel it personally. When I landed here on July
12, Florida had just recorded a single day state record for positive
cases.

michael barbaro

Right.

marc stein

And then, as a reporter, I'm being ushered inside a bubble. So for me
getting tested every day, it is a little bit uncomfortable on some
levels. And this does come at a great expense for the N.B.A.. The latest
estimate I received was \$180 million for the league to operate the
campus. And not every organization in the world is in position to spend
that kind of money to do that.

michael barbaro

Right. I mean not at all. I think it's pretty fitting that we keep
calling this the bubble. It is a bubble. And it's very fitting that this
was constructed inside the magical kingdom. Because there is something
kind of fantasy like about what you're describing. And it does not feel
replicable for the rest of us. It feels like something that can be done
only by a highly profitable sport and very well-off athletes.

marc stein

Yeah. It's really the N.B.A.`s version of ``It's a Small World.'' It's
unprecedented. It's historic. And that's why, as a journalist who's
covered this league for almost 30 years, I had to be here to see it. But
when you look at it critically, it also hits home what a dire state this
country is in, and the lengths that the N.B.A. has to go to just to get
to the finish line of this season. You know, I have a 17-year-old and a
14-year-old. And it's quite clear that there isn't going to be a magical
bubble that can be created to get them back in their classrooms this
fall. And that's a realization that being here hits you every day. This
village that the N.B.A. has built, it's not something that can be
readily duplicated. It's not something that's going to be available to
the masses that so badly need it.

{[}music{]}

michael barbaro

Well Marc, thank you very much. And we'll see you whenever it is you
leave the bubble.

marc stein

Thanks for having me.

michael barbaro

The first round of the N.B.A. playoffs will continue today with four
games scheduled inside of the bubble.

We'll be right back.

{[}music{]}

Here's what else you need to know today. On Thursday, federal officials
arrested Steve Bannon, a former top advisor to President Trump and the
architect of his 2016 election victory, on charges of stealing hundreds
of thousands of dollars from donors. Those donors believed that they
were funding the president's signature initiative of building a wall
along the US border with Mexico. Instead, according to the charges,
Bannon used much of the money for personal expenses, becoming the latest
Trump advisor to be charged with a crime. And ---

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  Good evening, Ella Baker, a giant of the civil rights movement, left
  us with this wisdom, give people light and they will find the way.
  Give people light, those are words for our time. The current president
  has cloaked American darkness for much too long, too much anger, too
  much fear, too much division.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

During the fourth and final night of the Democratic National Convention,
Joe Biden formally accepted his party's nomination for president,
promising to end what he described as a dark and deadly chapter in
American history.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  Here and now, I give you my word. If you entrust me with the
  presidency, I will draw on the best of us not the worst. I'll be an
  ally of the light not the darkness.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

Biden said he was prepared for a presidency that would confront four
crises, a virus, widespread unemployment, a racial reckoning, and
climate change, at once and pledged to restore honor and decency to the
White House.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  archived recording (joe biden)\\
  You know American history tells us that it's been in our darkest
  moments that we've made our greatest progress, that we found the
  light. In this dark moment, I believe we're poised to make great
  progress again. That we can find the light once more.
\end{itemize}

michael barbaro

The Daily is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young,
Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg,
Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, MJ Davis Lin, Austin
Mitchell, Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel
Guillemette, Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Bianca Giaever,
Asthaa Chaturvedi, Rachelle Bonja, and Liz O Baylen. Our theme music is
by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam
Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Nora Keller,
Mahima Chablani, and Des Ibekwe. That's it for The Daily. I'm Michael
Barbaro. See you on Monday.

Previous

More episodes ofThe Daily

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/podcasts/the-daily/Daniel-Prude-BLM-police.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/world/08daily-1/08daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 8, 2020~~•~ 30:10What Happened to Daniel Prude?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/podcasts/the-daily/Godspell-theater-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/world/04daily-godspell/04daily-godspell-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 4, 2020~~•~ 28:25Bringing the Theater Back to Life

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/podcasts/the-daily/hong-kong-china-jimmy-lai.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/03/world/03daily-jimmylai/03daily-jimmylai-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 3, 2020~~•~ 33:56Jimmy Lai vs. China

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/podcasts/the-daily/belarus-protests-lukashenko.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/world/02daily-2/02daily-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 2, 2020~~•~ 38:59A High-Stakes Standoff in Belarus

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/podcasts/the-daily/joe-biden-protests-trump.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/world/01daily-1/01daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

September 1, 2020~~•~ 28:14Joe Biden's Rebuttal

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/podcasts/the-daily/flint-michigan-police-officer.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/31/world/31daily-1/31daily-1-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 31, 2020~~•~ 44:02`Who Replaces Me?'

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/podcasts/the-daily/california-wildfires-prisoners.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/09/03/magazine/03audm-firefighters4/03firefighters4-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 30, 2020The Sunday Read: `In the Line of Fire'

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/podcasts/the-daily/donald-trump-junior-campaign.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/28/world/28daily-2/28daily-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 28, 2020~~•~ 36:33Donald Trump Jr.'s Journey to Republican
Stardom

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/podcasts/the-daily/kenosha-wisconsin-protests.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/world/27daily-kenosha-2/27daily-kenosha-2-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 27, 2020~~•~ 31:35On the Ground in Kenosha

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/podcasts/the-daily/republican-convention-suburbs.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/world/26daily-suburban/26daily-suburban-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 26, 2020~~•~ 33:18Trump's Suburban Strategy

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/podcasts/the-daily/coronavirus-plasma-reinfection.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/world/25daily-covid/25daily-covid-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 25, 2020~~•~ 26:42Where We Stand on the Pandemic

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/podcasts/the-daily/gun-violence-new-york.html?action=click\&module=audio-series-bar\&region=header\&pgtype=Article}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/world/24daily-guncrime-nyc/24daily-guncrime-nyc-thumbLarge.jpg}}

August 24, 2020~~•~ 33:12A Surge in Shootings

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-daily}{See All
Episodes ofThe Daily}

Next

Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{\textbf{Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile
device:}}\\
\textbf{\href{https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-daily/id1200361736?mt=2}{\emph{Via
Apple Podcasts}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{https://open.spotify.com/show/3IM0lmZxpFAY7CwMuv9H4g?si=SfuMSC55R1qprFsRZU3_zw}{\emph{Via
Spotify}}} \emph{\textbf{\textbar{}}}
\textbf{\href{http://www.stitcher.com/podcast/the-new-york-times/the-daily-10}{\emph{Via
Stitcher}}}

When the coronavirus hit the United States, the N.B.A. was faced with a
unique challenge. It seemed impossible to impose social distancing in
basketball, an indoor sport with players almost constantly jostling one
another for more than two hours. However, there was a big financial
incentive to keep games going: ending the 2019 season early would have
cost the league an estimated \$1 billion in television revenue.

The solution? A sealed campus for players, staff and selected
journalists at Disney World in Florida.

Marc Stein, who covers the N.B.A. for The New York Times, has been
living out of a hotel room in the complex for the last 40 days. Today,
we speak to him about what life is like inside the bubble.

\textbf{On today's episode:}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marc-stein}{Marc Stein}, a
  sports reporter for The New York Times.
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/world/21daily-nba/merlin_175963434_3cd3a139-68c5-4791-a54c-090de23624a5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Background reading:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Twenty-two of the league's 30 teams are living in the Disney World
  complex.
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/sports/basketball/coronavirus-nba-season-bubble-disney-world.html?searchResultPosition=15}{Life
  on the campus is both strange and mundane}.
\item
  The
  N.B.A.\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/sports/basketball/nba-homecourt-advantage-wnba.html?searchResultPosition=7}{has
  sought to replicate the home-court edge} through music, audio cues and
  graphics from the ``home'' teams' arenas.
\end{itemize}

\emph{Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily@NYTimes.com}{\emph{thedaily@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.
Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter:}
\href{https://twitter.com/mikiebarb}{\emph{@mikiebarb}}\emph{. And if
you're interested in advertising with ``The Daily,'' write to us at}
\href{mailto:thedaily-ads@NYTimes.com}{\emph{thedaily-ads@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Marc Stein contributed reporting.

``The Daily'' is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel
Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige
Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy
Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Stella Tan, Alexandra Leigh Young,
Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Kelly Prime,
Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell,
Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette,
Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison, Mike Benoist, Bianca Giaever, Liz O.
Baylen, Asthaa Chaturvedi and Rachelle Bonja. Our theme music is by Jim
Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick,
Mikayla Bouchard, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani, Nora
Keller, Sofia Milan and Desiree Ibekwe.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
