Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Taps Peter Navarro,
Vocal Critic of China, for New Trade Post

\url{https://nyti.ms/2icmeAg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-taps-peter-navarro-vocal-critic-of-china-for-new-trade-post}{%
\section{Trump Taps Peter Navarro, Vocal Critic of China, for New Trade
Post}\label{trump-taps-peter-navarro-vocal-critic-of-china-for-new-trade-post}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/22/us/22NAVARRO/11NAVARRO-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/binyamin-appelbaum}{Binyamin
Appelbaum}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 21, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{http://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20161222/peter-navarro-carl-icahn-trump-china-trade/}{阅读简体中文版}

WASHINGTON --- President-elect Donald J. Trump on Wednesday named a
strident China critic, Peter Navarro, to lead a new White House office
overseeing American trade and industrial policy, in the latest sign that
Mr. Trump is moving to reshape relations between the world's two largest
economies.

Mr. Trump also said the billionaire investor Carl Icahn would serve as a
special adviser on regulatory issues, another area of economic policy in
which the president-elect wants big changes.

The appointments reflect Mr. Trump's ambition to increase economic
growth by hammering at what he regards as critical roadblocks. He has
promised to expand American manufacturing by reducing federal regulation
and by preventing what he has described as unfair competition from
Chinese manufacturers. The choices of Mr. Navarro and Mr. Icahn also
reflect Mr. Trump's manifest preference for advisers who are loyal, and
who do not have government experience.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/22/business/cnbc-icahn/cnbc-icahn-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Mr. Navarro, 67, a professor at the University of California, Irvine,
who holds a doctorate from Harvard, is the only credentialed economist
in Mr. Trump's inner circle. He is the author of a series of jeremiads,
including a 2012 documentary film,
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mMlmjXtnIXI}{Death by China},''
in which an animation of a Chinese knife stabs a map of the United
States and causes blood to run freely. Mr. Navarro has said that China
is effectively waging an economic war by subsidizing exports to the
United States and impeding imports from it. Mr. Trump, influenced by Mr.
Navarro's work, described this on the campaign trail as ``the greatest
theft in the history of the world.''

Mr. Trump has said he will persuade Beijing to change its policies by
applying pressure, including designating China a currency manipulator;
enforcing existing trade laws more vigorously; and, if necessary,
imposing a 45 percent tariff on Chinese imports. In a statement, Mr.
Trump described Mr. Navarro as ``a visionary economist'' and said he
would ``develop trade policies that shrink our trade deficit, expand our
growth and help stop the exodus of jobs from our shores.''

A wide range of economists have warned that curtailing trade with China
would damage the American economy, forcing consumers to pay higher
prices for goods and services. Experts on manufacturing also doubt that
the government can significantly increase factory employment, noting
that mechanization is the major reason fewer people are working in
factories.

Mr. Navarro's appointment reinforces a basic division among Mr. Trump's
economic advisers. The people he has chosen to oversee trade policy, Mr.
Navarro and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/24/us/politics/wilbur-ross-commerce-trump.html}{Wilbur
Ross}, another billionaire investor, both favor increased trade
restrictions. But Mr. Trump's broader circle of advisers is dominated by
proponents of free trade, including Mr. Icahn;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/12/business/dealbook/goldman-sachs-gary-cohn.html}{Gary
D. Cohn}, the president of Goldman Sachs, who will lead the National
Economic Council;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/12/us/politics/rex-tillerson-secretary-of-state-trump.html}{Rex
W. Tillerson}, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, who was tapped for
secretary of state; and Gov. Terry Branstad of Iowa,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/07/us/politics/terry-branstad-china-ambassador-trump.html?_r=0}{Mr.
Trump's choice for ambassador to China}. Mr. Trump is also considering
the appointment of Larry Kudlow, a strong proponent of trade, to lead
his Council of Economic Advisers.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump's Cabinet Is Complete. Here's the Full
List.}\label{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}}

A list of appointees and nominees for top posts in the new
administration.

Mr. Trump has also promised to edit the federal rule book, removing what
he has described as overly burdensome restrictions. He said last month
that the government would eliminate two regulations for each new rule it
put on the books. For Mr. Icahn, who will not draw a salary, the new
role formalizes his relationship with Mr. Trump, whom he advised on
economic issues throughout the campaign. Mr. Icahn, 80, has no
experience in government; like a growing number of Mr. Trump's
appointees, he was prized for his success as a businessman.

Mr. Icahn, a brash New York billionaire who vocally supported Mr. Trump
during the campaign, made his fortune as a ``corporate raider,'' buying
stakes in corporations and demanding changes to reward shareholders.
``Carl was with me from the beginning, and with his being one of the
world's great businessmen, that was something I truly appreciated,'' Mr.
Trump said in a statement. ``His help on the strangling regulations that
our country is faced with will be invaluable.''

Mr. Icahn will also play a role in the selection of a new chairman for
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the regulator that serves as the
referee for his battles with corporations.

Mr. Icahn, the child of two New York schoolteachers, was not known for
political activism before the 2016 campaign, and he has insisted that he
wants to help the country, not himself. But Mr. Trump's choice of a
major corporate investor to play a role in rewriting regulations that
could affect those companies renewed concerns about conflicts of
interest in the next administration.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/12/05/us/politics/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/02/us/politics/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires-1480717606838/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires-1480717606838-thumbLarge-v2.png}

\hypertarget{outsiders-insiders-and-multimillionaires-in-trumps-cabinet}{%
\subsection{Outsiders, Insiders and Multimillionaires in Trump's
Cabinet}\label{outsiders-insiders-and-multimillionaires-in-trumps-cabinet}}

President-elect Donald J. Trump's cabinet and top staff are shaping up
to be a mix of wealthy Washington outsiders, Republican insiders and
former military officers who have been critical of the Obama
administration.

``The corrupt nature of this arrangement cannot be understated,'' Eric
Walker, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said in a
statement about Mr. Icahn's appointment. ``Voters who wanted Trump to
drain the swamp just got another face full of mud.''

Mr. Navarro has built a quiet career as an academic economist,
publishing papers on subjects like why businesses give to charity,
electricity deregulation and the economics of trash collection.

He also mounted four unsuccessful political campaigns as a Democrat
between 1992 and 2001, including candidacies for mayor of San Diego and
a House seat in Congress.

He has said that he started paying attention to China in the early 2000s
because he noticed that graduates of the business school at California,
Irvine, were starting to lose jobs as a result of globalization. In
2011, he wrote a letter to Mr. Trump about his book ``Death by China,''
which the movie was based on, and the men began to correspond. Over the
past year, Mr. Navarro became an increasingly important campaign adviser
on economic issues. But he and Mr. Trump had not met in person until
September.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
