Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Young Voters Still `Feel the
Bern,' but Not Just for Bernie Sanders Anymore

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Npo7JF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{young-voters-still-feel-the-bern-but-not-just-for-bernie-sanders-anymore}{%
\section{Young Voters Still `Feel the Bern,' but Not Just for Bernie
Sanders
Anymore}\label{young-voters-still-feel-the-bern-but-not-just-for-bernie-sanders-anymore}}

The Vermont senator benefited from a wave of enthusiasm from young
people in 2016. Many still love him, but not him alone.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/20/us/politics/20sandersyouthSUB/20sandersyouthSUB-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 20, 2019Updated Oct. 2, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. --- College students are back on campus.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} is, too.

Earlier this month at Iowa State University, he lectured to young voters
as they played ``Green New Deal Pong'' (the Solo cups were filled with
green-colored water) and ``Bern Bag Toss.'' At the University of Nevada,
Reno, he croaked through a hoarse voice to address a crowd that
stretched from the college lawn to the open-air floors of a parking
garage beside it.

And at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on Thursday
evening, he implored students to get themselves to the primary polls
come February --- and vote for him.

``You have friends out there, and I know you do, who think that the
political system'' is absurd, he said, using a colorful expletive.
``Tell them that instead of just complaining, they must get involved
into the political process.''

It was a sentiment he has repeated often this month as he crisscrossed
the country on what has amounted to a whirlwind back-to-school tour. In
Iowa, Nevada, North Carolina and South Carolina, he has by turns used
flattery (``Your generation is the most progressive younger generation
in the history of this country'') and subtle warnings (``The future of
this country and in fact the world rests with your generation'') to
bolster his appeals.

Everywhere, his goal was the same: muster a version of the army of young
voters who propelled his campaign in 2016.

His message was one that has resonated with Brianna Williams, 19, who
arrived with a group of friends to hear him in Chapel Hill. ``I've seen
a lot of his policies, and I'm just excited for what he has to offer as
a candidate,'' she said.

But she was just as excited by Senator Elizabeth Warren. ``I would love
to see a woman running the country,'' she said. ``That would be really
cool.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/20/us/politics/20sandersyouth-nc/20sandersyouth-nc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Last time around, Mr. Sanders's rants against the elite and promises of
free college tuition endeared him to legions of young fans. It also
helped that Mr. Sanders --- 74 at the time, with unruly white hair and
an old-school Brooklyn accent --- was both decidedly uncool and new to
presidential politics, affording his campaign a paradoxical edge that
inspired millions of young supporters to ``feel the bern'' and vote for
him over Hillary Clinton.

As he fights anew for the Democratic nomination, it is not lost on him
or his allies that his success hinges, in no small part, on his ability
to capture that enthusiasm again --- for both the optics of his race and
the actual votes.

But this time he is no longer an insurgent, nor is he the only
anti-establishment candidate in the race --- factors that helped boost
his standing among young voters. With the race entering the crucial fall
period, other candidates, including Ms. Warren and Andrew Yang, have
begun siphoning off some of his support.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter}} \emph{hosted by Lisa Lerer and join the
conversation around the 2020 presidential race.}{]}

Even Mr. Sanders's closest advisers acknowledge that he cannot take for
granted a voting cohort they view as critical, even if it is
traditionally unreliable in actually making it to the ballot box.

``Last time it was much more organic,'' Faiz Shakir, Mr. Sanders's
campaign manager, said. ``And this time it's far more intentional.''

In interviews, many young voters still praised Mr. Sanders, sometimes
breathlessly --- citing his authenticity and conviction but also his
calls for free college and universal health care and his proposal to
cancel student debt. But many also expressed curiosity, if not
exuberance, about other candidates

``I love everything he stands for,'' said Asha Loutsch, 18, as she sat
with a circle of friends who were waiting for his event at the
University of Iowa. ``I think he really cares about what he's trying to
say. Like, he's always getting up in there, you know?''

But she also said she was interested in Ms. Warren and wanted to hear
her speak.

Jiego Lim, an 18-year-old student at the University of Nevada, Reno, who
was volunteering at Mr. Sanders's event there, said he supported Mr.
Sanders but was also intrigued by Mayor Pete Buttigieg and Senator
Kamala Harris. ``I feel like we need a fresh new face in politics,'' he
said. ``Bernie comes off aggressive to me sometimes.''

Others were less equivocal.

``He's America's dad,'' offered Gabriel Olier, 19, a student in Reno.
``I love Bernie.''

That affection for Mr. Sanders is reflected in some more tangible
metrics. His campaign said it had so far raised over \$1 million from
people under the age of 25, a relatively small figure compared to his
overall haul but one that nevertheless points to his continued strength
with young voters.

Image

People playing ``Green New Deal Pong'' at a Sanders rally at Iowa State
University in Ames.Credit...Jordan Gale for The New York Times

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Here's
the latest data}} \emph{on who's leading the race to be the Democratic
nominee.{]}}

And in most polls, Mr. Sanders still maintains a strong lead among young
voters:
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2019/09/17/biden-warren-lead-in-latest-nbcwsj-2020-democratic-poll.html}{A
recent NBC/Wall Street Journal survey} showed that a third of voters
under 35 supported him.

Yet at the same time, a quarter of these respondents said they supported
Ms. Warren, suggesting Mr. Sanders no longer has the same hold on the
group he had in 2016.

Any candidate relying on the support of younger voters faces an
undeniable challenge: Younger voters tend not to vote in high numbers
compared with other groups. In the 2016 election, for instance, only
\href{https://civicyouth.org/iowa-caucuses-2016/}{11 percent of voters}
under 30 participated in the Iowa caucuses, representing just 15 percent
of the total, according to an estimate from the Center for Information
and Research on Civic Learning and Engagement at Tufts University.

But the high turnout among young voters during the 2018 midterm
elections has given some experts hope that the 2020 election will be
different. That strong showing has provided organizers with a larger
pool to identify and target potential presidential voters. Issues,
including climate change, criminal justice, health care and gun control,
are also motivating young voters to act.

``The truth is that if younger people in this country voted at the same
level as people 65 and over, we could transform this country,'' Mr.
Sanders said this month at the University of Iowa. ``Please do it!''

John Della Volpe, the director of polling at Harvard's
\href{http://www.iop.harvard.edu/}{Institute of Politics}, said that Mr.
Sanders was still ``doing really well'' but that the field was more
complex and his pool of support was smaller.

``At this stage, he's essentially sharing support of young people in
most polls with Elizabeth Warren,'' Mr. Della Volpe said. ``The idea of
going after structural reforms is really, I think, what is resonating so
clearly with young people.''

Indeed, of all the other candidates, it is Ms. Warren who appears to be
generating the most powerful wave of energy among young voters in
Democratic presidential politics --- particularly among those who once
supported Mr. Sanders.

Olivia Stecklein, 19, a student at the University of Iowa, said she had
been a fan of Mr. Sanders since 2015 but was now choosing between him
and Ms. Warren.

``I feel like they're pretty similar, but I just kind of like how
Elizabeth Warren has a set-out plan for everything,'' she said. ``She
just seems very prepared.''

Eliza Link, 18, a University of Iowa student, said she was also deciding
between Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren.

``I think they're both the cool aunt and uncle of the political race
right now,'' she said.

With his characteristic verve that can exhaust even young reporters, Mr.
Sanders has been in an all-out sprint to earn the vote of the youths,
months before any of them can even cast their vote.

Image

A young crowd cheered as Mr. Sanders took the stage during a rally on
climate change in Las Vegas.Credit...Bridget Bennett for The New York
Times

His team set up a Bernie Summer School program to train campus leaders
in the art of campaigning. He urged his campaign to get him back on
college campuses in the first weeks of the new school year. He
constantly asks his team to share data on young voters.

To win over the group, however, Mr. Sanders will have to convince people
like Tim Watts, 19.

Before Mr. Sanders's event in Reno, Mr. Watts wore a ``MATH'' hat, the
universal accessory of Yang supporters.

But despite his overt support for Mr. Yang --- who in some ways is
benefiting from the outsider status among young voters that Mr. Sanders
enjoyed in 2016 --- Mr. Watts said he had not yet closed the door on Mr.
Sanders.

``I'm part of the Yang gang, I guess,'' he said. ``I will probably feel
the bern later.''

Rachel Shorey contributed reporting from Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
