Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Buttigieg's Debate Remarks
on Police Shooting Don't Satisfy Some Back Home

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FELM34}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{buttigiegs-debate-remarks-on-police-shooting-dont-satisfy-some-back-home}{%
\section{Buttigieg's Debate Remarks on Police Shooting Don't Satisfy
Some Back
Home}\label{buttigiegs-debate-remarks-on-police-shooting-dont-satisfy-some-back-home}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/28/us/politics/28southbendwatch1/28southbendwatch1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip
Gabriel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 28, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SOUTH BEND, Ind. --- It was more than an hour into Thursday's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/democratic-debate-recap.html}{Democratic
debate} before the community activists watching back home finally heard
Mayor Pete Buttigieg face the tough questions they were waiting for.

Why was the South Bend police department just 6 percent black in a city
that is 26 percent African-American? How had a white officer fatally
shot a black man in a routine encounter 11 days earlier?

And why, after years of policing traumas like the one in Ferguson, Mo.,
was it taking so long to bring accountability to South Bend?

Mr. Buttigieg admitted to falling short. ``I couldn't get it done,'' he
said about failing to increase diversity on the police force. He
expressed anguish for the family of the dead man, Eric Logan.

\emph{{[}We tracked down the 2020 Democrats and asked them the same set
of questions.}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-candidate-interviews.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{Watch
them answer.}{]}}

In an apartment on South Bend's largely black Northwest Side, the
reviews were mostly negative.

``He skipped over all the stuff that's happened,'' said Tiana
Batiste-Waddell, referring to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/18/us/politics/buttigieg-police-black-community.html}{history
of police misconduct} in South Bend, some of which led to officers being
fired or found guilty of rights violations.

``It's not in his best interest to go into all of it because he knows he
didn't do anything,'' said Jordan Geiger, who works for a nonprofit
group.

``But he needs to speak to those,'' Ms. Batiste-Waddell said. ``That's
how I believe our department got to the point of killing a black man.
Because none of the other racial things that have happened have been
addressed.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/19/us/politics/buttigieg-black-police-chief-fired.html}{\emph{Pete
Buttigieg fired South Bend's black police chief. It still
stings}}\emph{.{]}}

In the end, the shooting that has consumed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/18/us/politics/buttigieg-south-bend-police-shooting.html}{Mr.
Buttigieg's campaign for more than a week}, threatening to halt his
magical rise in the 2020 field and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/us/politics/buttigieg-south-bend-shooting.html}{to
undermine his hopes} of winning black voters nationally, was not a major
narrative of the debate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/28/us/politics/28southbendwatch2/merlin_157122438_be28b1a3-12b6-4069-9d79-0aba5af6d2c1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The 37-year-old mayor,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/06/27/us/elections/debate-speaking-time.html}{who
was third out of 10 candidates} in the length of time he spoke, capably
handled multiple issues, including immigration, the role that Midwest
farmers could play in slowing climate change and China's threat to
dominate artificial intelligence.

Even on race, he was not the big story, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-busing-joe-biden.html}{Senator
Kamala Harris of California confronted}former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/factcheck-democratic-debate.html}{his
past support of school busing} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/20/us/politics/joe-biden-segregationists.html}{recent
praise of segregationists}.

In the coming days, the police shooting is unlikely to fade for Mr.
Buttigieg, who supports a Department of Justice investigation.

How it will affect his campaign, which expects to announce strong
fund-raising results through June, remains unclear. Some critics have
been quick to pronounce the end of a candidacy initially lofted up by
white liberal support.

There has been little polling since the shooting took place. But Mr.
Buttigieg's attempts at damage control, in the form of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/24/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-south-bend-shooting.html}{readily
voiced contrition} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/23/us/politics/buttigieg-south-bend-shooting.html?searchResultPosition=1}{community
meetings that were raw and chaotic}, may be more convincing to voters
nationally than locally.

As Ms. Batiste-Waddell, 40, watched, she and some of the other activists
expressed frustration with a debate-night discourse that seemed far
removed from their lived experience in South Bend, where they are part
of a minority community with high poverty and violence, which has not
been lifted by the economic development that Mr. Buttigieg boasts of
bringing to the city.

\emph{{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{Here's
the latest data}} \emph{on who's leading the race to be the Democratic
nominee.{]}}

``To me it's all been a big dumpster fire,'' E-Lexus Thornton, a
graduate student in industrial management, said of the mayor's response
to the shooting. ``I hate to be so negative, I'm sure he has his good
points. But I'm speaking from a Northwest Side point of view.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#with-labor-day-behind-them-the-campaigns-take-flight-literally}{With
Labor Day behind them, the campaigns take flight ---
literally.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-trump-campaigns-lavish-spending-eroded-its-head-start-a-times-analysis-shows}{The
Trump campaign's lavish spending eroded its head start, a Times analysis
shows.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-lashes-out-at-biden-and-harris-and-chides-a-reporter-for-wearing-a-mask}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 8:18 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-lashes-out-at-biden-and-harris-and-chides-a-reporter-for-wearing-a-mask}{Trump
lashes out at Biden and Harris and chides a reporter for wearing a
mask.}

Mr. Thornton, 23, said there was a sharp divide in the perspectives of
black and white residents in the city, just as there was economic
segregation by neighborhood.

``I go to the middle-class neighborhoods, I see people saying he's done
good things,'' he said of the mayor. ``But when I come back to where I
live, in the Northwest, it's the same old thing: broken-down housing, no
businesses, shootings.''

Ms. Batiste-Waddell, a middle school principal who voted for the Green
Party candidate in 2016, said she was largely indifferent to
presidential politics these days.

Image

E-Lexus Thornton, center, said there was a sharp divide in the
perspectives of black and white residents in South Bend.Credit...Mark
Felix for The New York Times

``I don't understand how you can believe in this process anymore,'' she
said, while Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York spoke on the TV
screen about her plan to transition to ``Medicare for all.'' ``As an
African-American person, I just don't believe in this.''

She suggested the entire debate should be about police misconduct and
reparations to black people for centuries of racism.

Minority residents of South Bend are not monolithic. In Mr. Buttigieg's
2015 re-election, he faced a primary challenge from a black member of
the City Council, and the mayor won decisively,
\href{https://southbendvoice.com/2015/05/07/what-does-electoral-victory-look-like-visualizing-mayor-pete-buttigiegs-win/}{winning
even the councilman's district}.

The N.A.A.C.P. president has been a Buttigieg supporter in the wake of
the police shooting. So was the host of the debate-watch gathering,
Vernado Malone Sr., who had been a close friend of Mr. Logan, the man
who was shot by a white officer responding to a call of someone breaking
into cars. The police said Mr. Logan, who left behind five children, had
raised a knife, but the officer failed to turn on his body camera.
Activists want a special prosecutor to investigate.

Mr. Malone provided a takeout dinner to his guests, four of them black
and one white, as well as a contrasting view of Mr. Buttigieg, whom he
supports.

On Friday, Mr. Malone, 47, organized a march against police violence
attended by Mr. Buttigieg and the police chief. He criticized some
community members who showed up two days later at a town hall, where
they blasted the mayor, but then failed to attend a City Council meeting
the next day to follow up on police issues.

``You can't yell at somebody when you're not putting in the work
yourself,'' Mr. Malone said.

Mr. Geiger told him that entering the County-City Building downtown for
official meetings was intimidating for some minority residents,
``especially people who have criminal backgrounds or they're behind on
their child support.''

Mr. Malone, who runs a livery business that drives people to visit
family members in prison, said that was no excuse. ``I've been locked up
five times, I'm in the system,'' he told Mr. Geiger. ``The County-City
Building shouldn't be a threat to nobody. They don't ask you your name
or for your ID.''

Early next week, the activists expected Mr. Buttigieg back in South
Bend, where they said he had promised to meet with them.

Ms. Batiste-Waddell expects to tell the mayor about a questionnaire that
can measure police officers' ability to adapt to people of different
cultures.

``This isn't about whether I like Mayor Pete or not,'' she said. ``I
just want to solve the problem.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The campaign
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{shifts
    to a higher gear this week}, with President Trump set to visit
    Florida and North Carolina today and Joseph R. Biden heading to
    Michigan tomorrow.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
