Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}South Korea Election
Turns Into 2-Way Race as Dark Horse Surges

\url{https://nyti.ms/2pAHKOR}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{south-korea-election-turns-into-2-way-race-as-dark-horse-surges}{%
\section{South Korea Election Turns Into 2-Way Race as Dark Horse
Surges}\label{south-korea-election-turns-into-2-way-race-as-dark-horse-surges}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/04/15/world/15skorea-1/15skorea-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 14, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEOUL, South Korea --- Just last month, Ahn Cheol-soo, a software mogul
turned politician, looked like another also-ran for the South Korean
presidential
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-election.html}{election}
in May. His centrist People's Party held only 40 seats in the 300-member
Parliament. He was barely polling at 10 percent in surveys.

Now, with less than a month to go before the election and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/14/world/asia/north-korea-china-nuclear.html}{as
tensions flare on the Korean Peninsula}, Mr. Ahn, 55, has suddenly
become a leading contender to be the next president, offering hope to
conservatives and others alarmed by the North's nuclear and missile
threats.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-election.html}{election}
could not be taking place at a more fraught moment. The victor will be
replacing an impeached president and entering office at a time when
tensions between the Koreas are as high as they have been in a long
time.

The outcome is likely to have far-reaching implications for
international efforts to deal with North Korea, analysts say.

President Trump has been pressing China to exert its influence on the
North to forestall more nuclear tests and missile launches. He has
threatened to act unilaterally if the Chinese do not prevail. The North,
in turn, threatened on Friday to attack American military bases in South
Korea as well as the Blue House, where South Korea's president resides.

The Chinese leadership has been calling on both the North and the United
States to exercise restraint.

In the midst of this brinkmanship, Mr. Ahn's support in polls has surged
this month, turning the campaign into a two-way race with Moon Jae-in,
the candidate from the largest political party, the left-leaning
Democrats, who control 119 parliamentary seats. Until now, the election
had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/10/world/asia/south-korea-liberals-impeachment.html}{seemed
like a shoo-in} for Mr. Moon.

Mr. Ahn, a boyish former medical doctor and relative neophyte in
politics, calls himself a champion of ``new politics'' who would heal a
country disillusioned with what he describes as a corrupt and
out-of-touch elite.

But his detractors call him a ``stooge'' for old politics, beholden to
conservative allies of former President Park Geun-hye, whose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/09/world/asia/park-geun-hye-impeached-south-korea.html}{impeachment
and ouster last month} led to the election.

Polling experts say that Mr. Ahn owed his recent popularity to people
who shunned conservative candidates after Ms. Park's corruption scandal
but did not trust Mr. Moon either, especially in dealing with North
Korea's advancing military abilities.

Mr. Ahn has wooed those people by attacking Ms. Park's government while
promising to honor its decision to allow the United States to deploy an
advanced missile defense system in the country against the North, a
decision that has infuriated China.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/04/15/world/15skorea-2/15skorea-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``We should never recognize North Korea as a nuclear power,'' Mr. Ahn
said recently, emphasizing that he would prioritize national security if
elected. ``If the North is about to launch a nuclear attack, we should
first strike the source of attack.''

The conservative camp, in power for the last nine years, was thrown into
disarray when the National Assembly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/09/world/asia/south-korea-president-park-geun-hye-impeached.html}{voted
to impeach} Ms. Park, a conservative icon, in December and a ruling by
the Constitutional Court formally ousted her in March.

With the two main conservative candidates polling in the single digits,
people who would normally vote conservative have been seeking
alternatives.

Their initial enthusiasm for Ban Ki-moon, the former secretary general
of the United Nations, was quashed as he barely began campaigning
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/01/world/asia/ban-ki-moon-president-south-korea.html}{before
dropping out}.

Then, they rallied behind Ahn Hee-jung, a left-centrist provincial
governor. But Mr. Ahn was eliminated this month when he lost the
Democratic Party primary to Mr. Moon.

Ahn Cheol-soo's support has since skyrocketed.

``For many centrist and conservative voters, there is no one else to
turn to except Ahn Cheol-soo,'' said Kim Jiyoon, a polling expert at the
Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul. ``Whether he can win the
election will depend largely on how many of the anti-Moon voters he can
persuade to come out and vote for him.''

Mr. Moon and Mr. Ahn share remarkably similar views on many issues.

Both have liberal goals like narrowing income inequality and overhauling
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/09/14/business/global/south-korean-chaebol-under-increasing-pressure.html}{the
chaebol}, the family-controlled conglomerates like Samsung that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/02/world/asia/south-korea-park-geun-hye-samsung.html}{have
dominated} the economy for decades, often through collusive ties with
government, as shown in Ms. Park's scandal.

Both promise to review
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/12/29/world/asia/comfort-women-south-korea-japan.html}{the
unpopular agreement} Ms. Park's government had struck with Japan on
``comfort women,'' the Korean women forced into sexual slavery by Japan
during World War II.

And they both emphasize the importance of the alliance with the United
States. But they argue that sanctions and pressure alone have failed to
stop North Korea's weapons program and that it is time to try dialogue.
During a televised debate on Thursday, both opposed action by the United
States that might prompt war on the peninsula, like a pre-emptive
military strike against the North.

The candidates even grew up in the same town: Busan, a port city in the
southeast.

But they have vastly different backgrounds and public images. Mr. Ahn is
a paragon of elite success. A son of a medical doctor, Mr. Ahn quit
practicing medicine in 1995 and built a fortune developing the country's
most successful antivirus software. He later became a graduate school
dean at Seoul National University, his alma mater.

During the debate, he said he would use his school connections and
business background to build a rapport with Mr. Trump. Both Mr. Ahn and
Mr. Trump attended the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.

``Like Spider-Man, once you have the power, even if you don't like it,
you have to accept the responsibility that comes with it and act
accordingly,'' Mr. Ahn, a science fiction fan, once said in a magazine
interview.

Image

Mr. Moon in Seoul this week. Until now, the election had seemed like a
shoo-in for him.Credit...Yonhap, via European Pressphoto Agency

In 2011, his plain talk about justice and the despair of jobless young
citizens made him an instant political star in South Korea, where
grievances over a government that served the privileged rather than the
common good
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/11/20/world/asia/a-new-voice-grips-south-korea-with-plain-talk-about-inequality-and-justice.html}{created
a political tinderbox} that would eventually explode in Ms. Park's
impeachment. In 2012, he won a parliamentary seat.

Mr. Moon, 64, a human rights lawyer and former student activist, served
in important political posts in the government of his closest friend and
ideological ally, Roh Moo-hyun, the president from 2003 to 2008. If Mr.
Moon is elected, conservatives fear, he would revive Mr. Roh's
``\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2008/01/17/world/asia/17korea.html}{sunshine
policy}'' of trying to build trust with North Korea through aid,
investment and exchanges.

The policy brought an unprecedented d√©tente on the divided peninsula.
But conservatives argue that it helped finance the North's nuclear
weapons program. They also view Mr. Moon as a replica of Mr. Roh, who
once said he would never ``kowtow to the Americans.''

In a book published in January, Mr. Moon said South Korea should learn
to ``say no to the Americans.''

``Given the tough-sounding foreign policy team of the Trump
administration, some South Koreans fear that friction with Washington
would be more likely under Moon than under Ahn,'' said Ko Sung-kook, a
political commentator.

This year, as the ballistic missile threat from the North grows,
conservatives and liberals are sharply split over the American
deployment of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/06/world/asia/north-korea-thaad-missile-defense-us-china.html}{an
antimissile system} known as Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, or
Thaad. Mr. Ahn and Mr. Moon were among the first to oppose the
deployment.

But Mr. Ahn later changed his stance, saying that it was
``irresponsible'' for a future president to reverse a deal struck
between the two governments. That shift helped him attract conservative
voters, analysts said.

Because of his business background, Mr. Ahn comes across as more
palatable for conservative voters than Mr. Moon, said Bae Jong-chan,
research director at Research and Research, an opinion survey company.

But many consider Mr. Ahn a na√Øve populist. He also faces doubts about
whether his small opposition party can push policies through a
contentious Parliament, Mr. Bae said.

``What can you do with only 40 parliamentary seats?'' Mr. Moon recently
said of Mr. Ahn.

With Mr. Ahn catching up fast, Mr. Moon has redoubled his efforts to
bolster his national security credentials. He said that if the North
conducted another nuclear test, dialogue with North Korea would be
difficult and the Thaad deployment ``inevitable.''

``I will create a government most feared by North Korea, most trusted by
the United States and most reliable for China,'' Mr. Moon said in a
nationally televised campaign speech on Thursday.

For his part, Mr. Ahn recently changed what detractors
\href{http://tv.naver.com/v/1551851}{have called his feminine voice}, to
sound more tough and seasoned.

``If you can't change yourself, how can you change the nation?'' he told
the daily JoongAng Ilbo this week.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
