<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" data-role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[Yiyun Li: ‘Under the Magnolia,’ a Short Story]()[Skip to Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@NYTimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

The Decameron Project

# Yiyun Li: ‘Under the Magnolia,’ a Short Story

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By <span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">Yiyun
Li</span>July 8,
2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">+</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="yiyun-li-short-story" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000007220848">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div id="g-li" class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="mag-decameron">

<div class="g-header-nav">

###### The Decameron Project

[![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/magazine)

###### New Fiction

</div>

<div class="g-dump">

The couple had arranged to meet Chrissy near the Battle Monument. She
had met them once, five years ago, when she served as the buyers’ lawyer
at the closing of their house. Soon after, the wife contacted her about
estate planning. Chrissy sent them material and never heard back. She
had forgotten them until the wife emailed again, apologizing for having
disappeared. “We’ve set our hearts to follow through this time,” she
wrote.

They were not the first procrastinating clients. People told Chrissy
about the distress of appointing guardians for their infant children, of
making decisions for their future selves. She herself had neither a will
nor plans in place — nothing wrong with that. A doctor could smoke; or,
like her father, drink himself to oblivion. No one says you have to live
up to the standard defined by your profession.

  

**The magnolia trees** lining the avenue were at their peak. Chrissy
picked up a palm-size petal on a bench. Magnolias are such confident
flowers. The petals, even fallen, feel alive.

Years ago Chrissy and her two best friends dug a hole and buried an
envelope under one of those magnolia trees. Inside they had written
notes, to be read again when they turned 50. To mark the solemnity of
the event, they each put a single earring in it. Chrissy’s was an opal
unicorn.

None of them remembered the envelope when they turned 50. The memory
only came back to Chrissy now.

“Jeannie?” a man a few steps away said tentatively.

Chrissy said she was not Jeannie, and he apologized. Was he meeting
Jeannie for a date? They would have to take their masks off, she
thought, to make a good impression. And how could they trust each other
if they took off their masks?

  

**The couple had no trouble** recognizing Chrissy, nor she them. They
were the only three people near the sculpture of General Washington. The
couple apologized that their two friends, the witnesses, were running
late.

Chrissy preferred punctuality. She disliked small talk. Still, she asked
the couple about their life under lockdown. The husband nodded
courteously and strolled away. He probably hated small talk, too.

“And the children? Which grades are they in now?” Chrissy said.

The wife glanced at the husband. He was farther away, studying General
Washington. “Ethan is in sixth grade.” There was a pause before that
answer came.

Did they have one child? Chrissy remembered two, from the small talk
five years ago. But it was true that only Ethan’s name was in the wills.
Perhaps she had mixed them up with another family.

“You must be thinking of ... Zoe?” the wife said in a lowered voice.

“Right ... ,” Chrissy said. She knew then what the wife would say, and
was relieved that the witnesses arrived just then. Zoe was dead. Chrissy
wished she had not asked about the children. Such an innocent question,
but there was never a truly innocent question.

  

**The signing took no more** than 10 minutes. The couple were healthy.
Neither had been married before, or had children outside this marriage.
No complications, that was how Chrissy thought of clients like them. Yet
they all came with some complications. Often Chrissy preferred not to
dwell upon them.

As the couple and the witnesses walked away, Chrissy called out to the
wife: “Mrs. Carson.”

The husband and the witnesses walked on, in a triangular formation with
the right distance in between. Chrissy wanted to say something about
Zoe. The wife had mentioned the name for a reason.

The wife gestured to the papers in Chrissy’s folder. “Strangely
uplifting, isn’t it? Signing our wills on a sunny day like this.”

“It’s a good thing to do,” Chrissy said, an automatic response.

“Yes,” the wife said, and thanked Chrissy again.

They would part then, and they might not see each other again. Chrissy
would forget this meeting, as she had forgotten what she wrote to
herself as a teenager. But someday she would remember this moment, and
she wished that she had said more than a platitude, as she wished she
had remembered the note to herself, or she had said something to her
father about his drinking.

“I’m so sorry,” Chrissy said, “about Zoe.” The most banal words, but
there are never the right words. That’s an excuse for saying nothing.

The wife nodded. “Sometimes I wish Zoe had been less resolute,” she
said. “I wish she had been like me or her father. We’re both
procrastinators.”

And yet no teacher or parent would encourage a child’s procrastination
or indecision, Chrissy thought. Why did she and her friends believe that
decades later, they would still remember the notes, and they would still
be interested in them? The confidence in life’s consistency, for a young
person, easily turns into the despair at life’s unchangeableness.

“But you’ve followed through this time,” Chrissy said, pointing to the
folder. A platitude again, but platitudes, like procrastination, have
their meaning,
too.

</div>

<div class="bkgtexture-fix">

</div>

<div class="g-spread g-spread-cover">

<div class="g-page g-page-cover g-spot">

<div class="g-page-text">

<div class="title-set">

## Under the  
MagNolIa

#### <span>By</span>

#### Yiyun Li

</div>

<div class="addbyline">

###### A short story from The New York Times Magazine’s Decameron Project.

</div>

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

<div class="left-border check">

</div>

<div class="right-border check">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-page">

<div class="g-page-text">

</div>

<div class="g-pagination">

1

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="right-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-spread">

<div class="g-page">

<div class="g-page-text">

</div>

<div class="g-pagination">

2

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="left-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-page g-hassecondart">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/magazine/12mag-li/12mag-li-master1050-v2.jpg)

</div>

<div class="g-page-text">

</div>

<div class="g-pagination">

3

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="right-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-spread">

<div class="g-page">

<div class="g-page-text">

</div>

<div class="g-pagination">

4

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="left-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-page">

<div class="g-page-text">

</div>

<div class="g-pagination">

5

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="right-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-pages">

</div>

<div class="g-spread">

<div class="g-page g-page-credits">

<div class="g-page-text">

Spot illustrations and lettering by *Sophy Hollington*

—

*Yiyun Li* is the author of seven books, including “Where Reasons End”
and “Must I Go,” published this month.

*Sophy Hollington* is a British artist and illustrator. She is known for
her use of relief prints, created using the process of the linocut and
inspired by meteoric folklore as well as alchemical
symbolism.

</div>

<div class="top-border check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border check">

</div>

<div class="left-border check">

</div>

<div class="right-border check">

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-page g-page-credits g-spot">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/magazine/12mag-li/12mag-li-master1050-v2.jpg)

</div>

<div class="top-border last check">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border last check">

</div>

<div class="left-border last check">

</div>

<div class="right-border last check">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-bottom-nav g-story-nav">

### Read More from the Decameron Project

<div class="g-nav-cards">

<div class="g-card g-card-flip">

[](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/victor-lavalle-short-story.html)

<div class="g-card-front">

<div class="g-title-border">

# VICtor  
LavaLLe

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-card-back g-card-title">

<div class="g-title-border g-card-art">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/magazine/12mag-LaValle-2/12mag-LaValle-2-master1050.jpg)

</div>

<div class="g-card-back-info">

VICtor LavaLLe <span class="cta">Read the
story</span>

</div>

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-card g-card-flip">

[](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/iweala-sleep-short-story.html)

<div class="g-card-front">

<div class="g-title-border">

# uZodiNma  
IwEAlA

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-card-back g-card-title">

<div class="g-title-border g-card-art">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/magazine/12mag-iweala/12mag-iweala-master1050.jpg)

</div>

<div class="g-card-back-info">

uZodiNma IwEAlA <span class="cta">Read the
story</span>

</div>

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-card g-card-flip">

[](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/awad-blue-short-story.html)

<div class="g-card-front">

<div class="g-title-border">

# Mona  
Awad

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="g-card-back g-card-title">

<div class="g-title-border">

<div class="g-asset_inner">

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png)

![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/12/magazine/12mag-awad/12mag-awad-master1050.jpg)

</div>

<div class="g-card-back-info">

Mona Awad <span class="cta">Read the
story</span>

</div>

<div class="top-border rule">

</div>

<div class="bottom-border rule">

</div>

<div class="left-border rule">

</div>

<div class="right-border rule">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

##### [See All](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/decameron-project-short-story-collection.html)

</div>

<div class="g-nav-index g-story-nav">

##### [The Decameron Project](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/decameron-project-short-story-collection.html)

</div>

<div class="g-nav-next g-story-nav">

##### [Read the Next Story](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/07/magazine/nayeri-cellar-short-story.html)

</div>

<div class="g-credits">

Credits

Additional design and development by *Shannon Lin* and *Jacky Myint.*

###### The Decameron Project ·

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Write a
comment

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
