Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Senate Approves More Time to
Spend Paycheck Protection Loans

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XV5TCF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99c3e650-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99c3e651-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99cd0e10-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99cd3520-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99cd3521-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=99cd3522-e39b-11ea-bae2-edbc4ce8b9dc}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{senate-approves-more-time-to-spend-paycheck-protection-loans}{%
\section{Senate Approves More Time to Spend Paycheck Protection
Loans}\label{senate-approves-more-time-to-spend-paycheck-protection-loans}}

June 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

This briefing is no longer updating. The latest developments
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/business/jobless-claims-stock-market-coronavirus.html}{can
be found here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7a1554a7}{Senate sends changes to Paycheck
  Protection Program to the president.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-69518c8}{Wall Street continues to rally along
  with global markets.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4e241406}{Quibi's rough patch continues as top
  leaders take pay cuts.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3a7eeffd}{\$267 billion of economic stimulus
  payments are out the door, Treasury says.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-145a169a}{AMC Theaters says it has
  `substantial doubt' it can stay in business.}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{senate-sends-changes-to-paycheck-protection-program-to-the-president}{%
\subsection{Senate sends changes to Paycheck Protection Program to the
president.}\label{senate-sends-changes-to-paycheck-protection-program-to-the-president}}

The Senate gave final approval on Wednesday to a measure that would
relax the terms of the Paycheck Protection Program, a federal loan
program for small businesses struggling during the pandemic.

The bill, approved overwhelmingly by the House last week, would extend
to 24 weeks from eight weeks the time that small businesses would have
to spend the loan money. The eight-week period to spend the loan money
was set to lapse within days for some businesses, leaving the Senate
limited time to consider alternatives. The measure now heads to
President Trump's desk.

The bill also would give companies greater flexibility to use the loan
money on other business expenses, like utilities and rent, by lowering
the amount required to be spent on payroll to 60 percent, from 75
percent.

Republicans said that they generally favored revamping the program,
which was created by the \$2.2 trillion stimulus bill enacted in March.
But an attempt to pass the bill by unanimous consent was delayed by
Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, who wanted a letter
clarifying that the extension applied to the time frame to spend the
loan money, not to the application period. Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the majority leader, submitted the letter just after 7 p.m.

The Paycheck Protection Program aims to help small businesses continue
paying their workers by giving them access to government-backed loans
that will be forgiven entirely if most of the money is spent on payroll
costs.

\hypertarget{wall-street-continues-to-rally-along-with-global-markets}{%
\subsection{Wall Street continues to rally along with global
markets.}\label{wall-street-continues-to-rally-along-with-global-markets}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/03/business/03virus-markets-briefing/merlin_173153073_7f9534d8-0d1b-41d0-99c8-77c6628a9055-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Stocks rose Wednesday, Wall Street's fourth straight day of gains, as
investors continued to zero in on prospects for the economy as they
looked past other risks.

The S\&P 500 climbed 1.4 percent, and stocks in Europe were sharply
higher.

On Wednesday, a private report on payrolls that showed job cuts may be
slowing helped lift shares in the United States. Business payrolls fell
by 2.76 million last month, the ADP Research Institute said. The Bureau
of Labor Statistics, or BLS, will release official May payroll figures
on Friday.

``The ADP report isn't always a reliable predictor of the BLS data, but
it suggests that the pace of job loss moderated noticeably between April
and May,'' Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to
clients on Wednesday. ``This is a message broadly consistent with some
other related signals, and the labor market likely has benefited from
the easing of restrictions on activity in many places in recent weeks.''

Companies with the most to gain as Americans begin to spend again were
among the best performers. \textbf{The Cheesecake Factory} jumped more
than 15 percent after the company said that restaurants it has reopened
have recovered to about 75 percent of their sales levels from a year
ago. The mall operator \textbf{Simon Property Group} was the best
performing stock in the S\&P 500.

Shares of \textbf{Ford} and \textbf{General Motors} climbed, after other
automakers including \textbf{Toyota} reported a rise in sales from April
to May. The major American auto companies now report sales on a
quarterly basis.

Investors have shrugged off a number of risks --- from long-term
economic damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic, to rising tension
between the United States and China, to growing unrest in the United
States --- to bid stocks higher for weeks, as they cheered steps from
the Federal Reserve and fiscal spending by Washington meant to help
minimize damage from the pandemic.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{21h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{22h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#finding-a-job-after-a-long-search-but-settling-for-less-pay}{22h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#finding-a-job-after-a-long-search-but-settling-for-less-pay}{Finding
a job after a long search, but settling for less pay.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Since March 23, when the Federal Reserve signaled its willingness to do
whatever it took to stabilize financial markets, the S\&P 500 has soared
nearly 40 percent. It is now less than 10 percent below its pre-pandemic
high.

\hypertarget{quibis-rough-patch-continues-as-top-leaders-take-pay-cuts}{%
\subsection{Quibi's rough patch continues as top leaders take pay
cuts.}\label{quibis-rough-patch-continues-as-top-leaders-take-pay-cuts}}

Image

Meg Whitman, along with Jeffrey Katzenberg, raised \$1.75 billion to
build Quibi. The video app has had a rocky debut.Credit...Etienne
Laurent/EPA, via Shutterstock

The video start-up \textbf{Quibi} had an inauspicious debut on April 6.
Now its top executives are taking pay cuts.

Quibi's leaders,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/11/business/media/jeffrey-katzenberg-quibi-coronavirus.html}{Jeffrey
Katzenberg and Meg Whitman}, who raised \$1.75 billion to build the
short-form video app, informed the staff of the salary reductions in a
memo on Wednesday.

``Nothing has changed since our last company meeting two weeks ago,''
they said in the memo. ``Quibi is in a good financial position. As we
said in that meeting, we will look for ways to tighten our belt. We are
not laying off staff as a part of cost saving measures. We've recently
added a dozen new Quibi employees.

``And in regard to tightening our belt,'' they added, ``our senior
leadership team has volunteered to take a 10 percent pay cut because
it's the right thing to do.''

Quibi, which offers entertainment and news programs in five- to
10-minute chunks, has been downloaded 4.5 million times and has 1.6
million active users. In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/11/business/media/jeffrey-katzenberg-quibi-coronavirus.html}{an
interview with The New York Times last month}, Mr. Katzenberg blamed the
coronavirus pandemic for the slow start, saying Quibi had been designed
for on-the-go viewing but came out during a nationwide lockdown.

The executive pay cuts were
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/quibi-asks-senior-executives-to-take-10-pay-cut-11591206642}{first
reported by The Wall Street Journal}.

\hypertarget{267-billion-of-economic-stimulus-payments-are-out-the-door-treasury-says}{%
\subsection{\$267 billion of economic stimulus payments are out the
door, Treasury
says.}\label{267-billion-of-economic-stimulus-payments-are-out-the-door-treasury-says}}

The Internal Revenue Service has distributed 159 million economic
stimulus payments --- worth a total of \$267 billion over the past two
months --- the Treasury Department said on Wednesday.

The stimulus money was included in the \$2 trillion economic relief
package Congress approved in March. The payments provide about \$1,200
per adult and \$500 per child, although the amounts are smaller for
people with higher incomes.

The I.R.S. made 120 million payments by direct deposit, 35 million by
check and 4 million by prepaid debit card, Treasury said.

The money is going to taxpayers whose information is on file with the
I.R.S. and Treasury said households that have not yet received payments,
such as those who do not file tax returns, can still submit their
banking information and get their payments by the end of the year.
Others can claim them when they file their 2020 tax returns.

The White House and members of Congress have been debating whether to
provide additional stimulus payments in future economic relief
legislation, but no decisions have been made.

\hypertarget{amc-theaters-says-it-has-substantial-doubt-it-can-stay-in-business}{%
\subsection{AMC Theaters says it has `substantial doubt' it can stay in
business.}\label{amc-theaters-says-it-has-substantial-doubt-it-can-stay-in-business}}

Image

A closed AMC theater in Elizabeth, N.J.Credit...Bryan Anselm for The New
York Times

\textbf{AMC Theaters}, the largest theater operator in the world, said
in a financial filing on Wednesday that ``substantial doubt exists about
our ability to continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of
time'' because of the disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic.

Moviegoing has essentially ceased around the country, with most
multiplexes closed since March and new releases from major studios
delayed. All AMC theaters are closed worldwide.

``During this period, we are generating effectively no revenue,'' the
company said. It estimated that its net loss for the first quarter would
be between \$2.1 billion and \$2.4 billion, compared to a \$130.2
million loss in the same period last year.

In April, AMC took on \$500 million in new debt, pushing its total to
\$5.3 billion, which it said would allow it to withstand closures around
the world into November.

In its filing, it said it believed it had enough cash on hand to resume
operations ``this summer or later.'' It cautioned that factors like not
producing needed revenues even when it does open and another suspension
of operations could force it to seek additional financing.

The pandemic closures came as theaters were already feeling pressured by
streaming's rising popularity. Since theaters have been shut, some
studios have released new movies through video services. In April,
\textbf{Universal} successfully rolled out ``Trolls World Tour'' that
way and said it planned to make more movies available to home viewers
---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/business/amc-universal-trolls-theaters-coronavirus.html}{without
exclusive theatrical runs} --- even when theaters reopen. AMC responded
by saying it would no longer book any of the studio's films.

\hypertarget{the-fed-will-expand-debt-buying-program-to-include-some-small-cities-and-counties}{%
\subsection{The Fed will expand debt-buying program to include some
small cities and
counties.}\label{the-fed-will-expand-debt-buying-program-to-include-some-small-cities-and-counties}}

The Federal Reserve announced on Wednesday that it will
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/business/economy/fed-local-governments-coronavirus.html'}{expand
its municipal bond-buying program}, allowing two cities or counties in
each state to sell their debt to the central bank, regardless of their
population.

The Fed's program, first announced on April 9, was previously able to
buy only from cities with populations of 250,000 or more and counties
with populations of at least 500,000. Those larger cities and counties,
along with some multistate entities, remain eligible to sell notes of up
to 36 months to the central bank's facility.

Governors of each state will also be able to designate two bond issuers
whose revenues come from operating government activities --- such as
public transit, airports or toll facilities --- to use the program.

The Fed is using its emergency lending powers, which it can tap at times
of serious economic stress, to buy state and local debt as a way to keep
markets functioning normally. The purchases are protected against loss
by \$35 billion in backing from the Treasury Department, a portion of a
\$454 billion pot Congress earmarked to support Fed lending programs in
the \$2 trillion stimulus package.

The program, which can buy up to \$500 billion in municipal notes,
became operational on May 26.

\hypertarget{the-trump-administration-plans-to-block-chinese-airlines-from-flying-to-the-united-states}{%
\subsection{The Trump administration plans to block Chinese airlines
from flying to the United
States.}\label{the-trump-administration-plans-to-block-chinese-airlines-from-flying-to-the-united-states}}

Image

As ground zero of the pandemic, China was the first country to see
aviation grind to a halt this year. Credit...Aly Song/Reuters

The Trump administration on Wednesday said that it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/trump-blocks-chinese-airlines.html}{planned
to block} Chinese airlines from flying into or out of the United States
starting on June 16 after the Chinese government effectively prevented
U.S. airlines from resuming service between the countries.

The dispute stems from a March 26 decision by China's aviation
regulators that limited foreign carriers to one flight per week based on
the flight schedules they had in place earlier that month. But all three
U.S. airlines that fly between China and the United States had stopped
all service to the country by then because of the coronavirus pandemic.
As a result, the Chinese government had effectively banned them from
flying between the two countries. Chinese airlines, by contrast, have
been flying to American cities.

\textbf{Delta Air Lines} and \textbf{United Airlines} had hoped to
resume flights to China this month.

Both companies appealed to the Civil Aviation Authority of China but did
not receive a response. The U.S. Transportation Department also pressed
Chinese officials to allow flights by American companies during a call
on May 14, arguing that China was violating a 1980 agreement that
governs flights between the countries and aims to ensure that rules
``equally apply to all domestic and foreign carriers'' in both
countries.

\hypertarget{canada-goose-cut-20-percent-of-its-corporate-workers}{%
\subsection{Canada Goose cut 20 percent of its corporate
workers.}\label{canada-goose-cut-20-percent-of-its-corporate-workers}}

Image

Credit...Frank Franklin Ii/Associated Press

\textbf{Canada Goose}, the seller of \$1,000 down-filled jackets,
reported on Wednesday a fourth quarter sales decline of 10 percent,
after cutting about 20 percent of its corporate work force last month
amid the pandemic.

While the company, which is based in Toronto, said publicly that it cut
just 2.5 percent of its global work force when it laid off 125 people
last month, it said in internal communications obtained by The New York
Times that the figure represented roughly 20 percent of corporate
employees. The brand notified employees, who have been working remotely,
of their terminations through brief, unexpected calls on the morning of
May 20, according to five laid off workers, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity to protect future job prospects.

``This is not a reflection on the brand --- we are very strong globally
--- but rather follows what we expect from consumer behavior over the
next year,'' Penny Brook, chief marketing officer at Canada Goose, said
in a May 20 internal email to her marketing team. ``Very simply put, we
expect to be a smaller organization --- and we were staffed to be a
larger one.''

\hypertarget{eurozone-unemployment-reaches-73-percent}{%
\subsection{Eurozone unemployment reaches 7.3
percent.}\label{eurozone-unemployment-reaches-73-percent}}

Image

Closed businesses and empty streets during lockdown in Paris in
April.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

Joblessness in Europe ticked up slightly in April, the second month
after most countries implemented coronavirus quarantines, as
government-backed furlough programs designed to limit mass unemployment
cushioned the blow of a devastating economic downturn.

But many national financial support programs are set to run out soon,
making it likely that joblessness will continue to march higher in
Europe over the coming months, economists said.

The eurozone unemployment rate rose to 7.3 percent from 7.1 percent in
March, although it was down from 7.6 percent a year ago. Around 12
million people in the 19 countries that use the euro were registered as
unemployed, a relatively low number compared with the United States,
where more than 40 million people have filed claims for jobless benefits
since the start of the pandemic.

European governments have vowed to spend trillions of euros to keep
people partially employed and support businesses amid the coronavirus
crisis. Since March, France, Germany, Denmark and other countries have
effectively been paying businesses not to lay people off and to keep
them on standby when their economies reopened. Around one-third of all
employees in Europe participated in short-time work schemes at the end
of April, according to a study by the European Trade Union Institute.

``As the recovery is likely going to last for quite some time,
unemployment is set to rise significantly, although short-time work will
help output to recover more quickly once demand returns,'' Bert Colijn,
the senior eurozone economist at ING bank, wrote in a note to clients.

\hypertarget{getting-back-to-business-may-force-tough-choices-by-working-women}{%
\subsection{Getting back to business may force tough choices by working
women.}\label{getting-back-to-business-may-force-tough-choices-by-working-women}}

Image

Virgina Dressler spends her days at home caring for her 3-year-old twins
while managing a full-time career as a digital
librarian.Credit...Da'Shaunae Marisa for The New York Times

As the pandemic upends work and home life, women have carried an
outsized share of the burden, more likely to lose a job and more likely
to shoulder the load of closed schools and day care. For many working
mothers, the gradual reopening of the economy won't solve their
problems, but will compound them,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html}{writes
The New York Times's Patricia Cohen and Tiffany Hsu}.

If parents are called back to the workplace before day care and other
support for family needs is available, they may need to limit their
hours or leave the labor force altogether. And such choices are far more
likely to face women than men.

Parents in the United States have nearly doubled the time they were
spending on education and household tasks before the coronavirus
outbreak, to 59 hours per week from 30, with mothers spending 15 hours
more on average than fathers, according to
a\href{https://www.bcg.com/publications/2020/helping-working-parents-ease-the-burden-of-covid-19.aspx}{report
from Boston Consulting Group}.

The inequities that existed before are now ``on steroids,'' said Claudia
Goldin, an economics professor at Harvard University. Since workplaces
tend to reward hours logged, she said, women are at a further
disadvantage. ``As work opens up, husbands have an edge,'' Ms. Goldin
said, and if the husband works more, his wife is going to have to work
less.

\hypertarget{e-bikes-are-having-their-moment-in-the-pandemic}{%
\subsection{E-bikes are having their moment in the
pandemic.}\label{e-bikes-are-having-their-moment-in-the-pandemic}}

Image

Brian Chen riding the electric Ride1Up 700, which sells for \$1,495. A
VanMoof S3 e-bike cost \$1,998.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

Electric bikes, the battery-powered two-wheelers, have become a
compelling alternative for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/health/cdc-coronavirus-offices.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{commuters
who are being discouraged} from taking public transportation and Ubers.
For others, the bikes provide much-needed fresh air after months of
confinement.

So it's no surprise that e-bikes are now as difficult to buy as a bottle
of hand sanitizer was a few weeks ago. In March,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/nyregion/bike-shortage-coronavirus.html}{sales
of e-bikes jumped 85 percent} from a year earlier, according to the NPD
Group, a research firm. Amazon, Walmart and Specialized are sold out of
most models. Even smaller brands like Ride1Up and VanMoof have waiting
lists.

``I was convinced that e-bikes would completely change cities all over
the world in the next 10 years, but it seems like because of this
crisis, suddenly it's all happening in the next three or four months,''
said Taco Carlier, the chief executive of VanMoof, which is based in
Amsterdam.

If you are contemplating an e-bike purchase, there are trade-offs to
consider,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/technology/personaltech/e-bikes-are-having-their-moment-they-deserve-it.html}{writes
Brian Chen}. For one, the battery packs and motors add bulk. For
another, these ostentatious bikes may lure thieves.

Reporting was contributed by Emily Cochrane, Nicole Sperling, Alan
Rapaport, Matt Phillips, Jeanna Smialek, Niraj Chokshi, Sapna
Maheshwari, Connor Ennis, Patricia Cohen, Tiffany Hsu, Liz Alderman,
Mohammed Hadi, Brian X. Chen, Kevin Williams, Neal E. Boudette, Kate
Conger, Rich Barbieri and Gregory Schmidt.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
