Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Inside the Battle for Downtown Portland}\href{}{Skip to
Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{inside-the-battle-for-downtown-portland}{%
\section{Inside the Battle for Downtown
Portland}\label{inside-the-battle-for-downtown-portland}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kate-conger}{Kate Conger} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/derek-watkins}{Derek Watkins}July 31,
2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{235}
\end{itemize}

Night after night, calm gave way to chaos. See how the clashes between
federal agents and protesters unfolded.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_319-2000.jpg}

Photographs by Mason Trinca

These photographs were taken over the course of a week of protests in
Portland.

Scenes of billowing tear gas, burning fires and federal agents in riot
gear have made Portland a national flash point and spurred debate over
the authority of the federal government to respond to protests. Often
missing from that debate was a full picture of what was happening on the
ground.

As
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/protests-portland-federal-withdrawal.html}{negotiations
continue} over when the agents will leave the city, here's a look at how
many recent nights of protest and confrontation have unfolded.

portland\_mt\_146.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_146-2000.jpg}

The clashes with federal officers were largely confined to a two-block
stretch of downtown Portland. The mood tended to follow a predictable
pattern, with large, peaceful gatherings in the evening turning to chaos
later at night.

The map below shows the \emph{general extent of major downtown
protests}.

SW TAYLOR ST.

Office

building

Office

building

Parking garage

Salmon Street

Springs fountain

SW SALMON ST.

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

Multnomah County

courthouse

Willamette

River

SW MAIN ST.

HIGHWAY 99 WEST

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

Chapman

Square

Multnomah County

Justice Center

City of Portland

office building

SW MADISON ST.

HAWTHORNE BRIDGE

200 FEET

Federal

office building

Terry Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

SW TAYLOR ST.

Salmon Street

Springs fountain

SW SALMON ST.

County

courthouse

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

Willamette

River

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

Chapman

Square

Justice

Center

SW MADISON ST.

HAWTHORNE BRIDGE

Terry

Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

Federal

office building

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

SW SALMON ST.

Federal

courthouse

County

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW THIRD AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Chapman

Square

Justice

Center

SW FIRST AVE.

SW MADISON ST.

Federal

office

building

Federal

park

City

Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

Much of the recent activity focused on the Mark O. Hatfield Courthouse,
a high-rise structure of limestone and glass to which the Trump
administration dispatched federal agents for protection in early July,
after a month of continuous demonstrations.

Typically, confrontations flared up at night, with protesters setting
fires and attempting to climb or cut down a fence that surrounds the
courthouse.

portland\_264.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_264-2000.jpg}

But the area was much quieter during the day.

portland\_307b.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_307b-2000.jpg}

People driving on Southwest Third Avenue slowed as they passed the
courthouse, staring at the vandalized building and occasionally honking
their support for the protests.

Portland's daily demonstrations against police violence have been among
the longest-running in the country since George Floyd was killed by the
police in May.

portland\_304b.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_304b-2000.jpg}

Lownsdale Square, one of \emph{three parks across the street from the
courthouse}, served as the primary staging area for the protests.

SW SALMON ST.

SW THIRD AVE.

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

County

courthouse

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

City of Portland

office building

SW MADISON ST.

SW SECOND AVE.

Federal

office

building

SW FIRST AVE.

Terry Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

SW SALMON ST.

SW THIRD AVE.

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

County

courthouse

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

City of Portland

office building

SW MADISON ST.

SW SECOND AVE.

Federal

office

building

Terry Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

During the day, the park resembled a campsite. Volunteers served free
food and handed out water bottles and medical supplies from a cluster of
tents, and a small homeless encampment was staged nearby. Police cleared
the park on Thursday.

portland\_mst\_504.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mst_504-2000.jpg}

Protesters relaxed near a tall monument in the center of the park,
repurposed as a canvas for protest graffiti. Gawkers and journalists
circulated, while construction workers nearby patched damage from the
previous night.

d-portland\_mst\_507.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/d-portland_mst_507-2000.jpg}

Southwest Main Street runs along the southern edge of Lownsdale Square.
A circular patch in the middle of the road marks where a statue of an
elk stood before fires set by protesters damaged its base and it was
removed.

portland\_301.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_301-2000.jpg}

On the other side of Lownsdale Square, Southwest Salmon Street leads to
a fountain in a large riverfront park a few blocks away.

The fountain was an early gathering point for protesters most evenings.
The crowd listened to music and speeches, chanted slogans and waved
protest signs.

portland\_311b.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_311b-2000.jpg}

Eventually the crowd would begin to \emph{walk up Salmon Street toward
the courthouse} and the Multnomah County Justice Center, which houses a
jail and the Portland Police headquarters.

Willamette

River

Salmon Street

Springs fountain

SW SALMON ST.

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW MAIN ST.

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

SW FOURTH AVE.

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

SW MADISON ST.

HAWTHORNE BRIDGE

SW SECOND AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

Terry

Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

Federal

office building

200 FEET

SW SECOND AVE.

Salmon Street

Springs fountain

SW SALMON ST.

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW THIRD AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Tom McCall

Waterfront Park

SW FOURTH AVE.

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

SW MADISON ST.

Federal

office building

Federal

park

SW FIRST AVE.

200 FEET

On recent nights, a group of mothers in yellow shirts calling themselves
the ``Wall of Moms'' led the three-block march. This week, the group
faced debate
\href{https://www.oregonlive.com/news/2020/07/portlands-wall-of-moms-crumbles-amid-online-allegations-by-former-partner-dont-shoot-pdx.html}{over
its leadership}, which had been primarily white, and questions about
whether its main focus was opposing the federal presence or supporting
Black Lives Matter.

d2-portland\_mst\_515.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/d2-portland_mst_515-2000.jpg}

The Justice Center, which neighbors the federal courthouse, drew
protesters for weeks before federal officers arrived in Portland.
Protesters
\href{https://www.oregonlive.com/crime/2020/07/32-year-old-man-faces-federal-arson-charge-stemming-from-fire-inside-justice-center.html}{set
a fire inside the building} on the night of May 29, four days after Mr.
Floyd was killed.

d-portland\_303.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/d-portland_303-2000.jpg}

On more recent nights, activists stood on the steps in front of the
building and delivered speeches to the crowd.

d-portland\_254.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/d-portland_254-2000.jpg}

This stage of each evening tended to be peaceful. Later, protesters
shifted their focus to the federal building and the clashes that broke
out there.

d-portland\_mst\_526.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/d-portland_mst_526-2000.jpg}

Protesters have
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s1FnOvg62O0}{focused on the
courthouse} since the protests began in late May. But the size and
intensity of those gatherings have grown since federal authorities
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/us/portland-protests.html}{arrived
in the city}.

portland\_mt\_121.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_121-2000.jpg}

A fence that federal officers erected around the courthouse on July 22
became a site of grievance. City officials have
\href{https://twitter.com/ChloeEudalyPDX/status/1288163839037456385}{fined
the federal government} more than \$200,000 for keeping up the fence,
which blocks a bike lane.

portland\_253.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_253-2000.jpg}

Protesters tried to pull the fence down, and used power tools to try to
disassemble it.

As most nights wore on, agitated protesters would
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XqebTNY6cI0}{shake and bang on the
fence}, throw water bottles and fireworks over it and set small fires
inside.

portland\_318.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_318-2000.jpg}

Federal authorities fired tear gas to keep the crowd away from the
fence. The clouds of gas could drift for several blocks, even as far as
the waterfront park where the protests had begun. Last week,
\href{https://www.oregonlive.com/crime/2020/07/downtown-jail-inmates-hitting-panic-buttons-due-to-tear-gas-wafting-into-cells-lawyers-say.html}{inmates
at the Justice Center} said the gas had wafted into their cells, causing
panic.

The map below shows \emph{where New York Times journalists observed tear
gas} deployed.

SW TAYLOR ST.

Office

building

Office

building

Parking garage

SW SALMON ST.

Blue shows

federal property

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

County

courthouse

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW SIXTH AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Federal

courthouse

Chapman

Square

Justice

Center

City of Portland

office building

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

SW MADISON ST.

Terry Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

Federal

office building

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

SW TAYLOR ST.

SW SALMON ST.

Blue shows

federal property

County

courthouse

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW SIXTH AVENUE

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

Federal

courthouse

SW MADISON ST.

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

Federal

office

building

Federal

park

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

SW SIXTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW SALMON ST.

County

courthouse

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW MAIN ST.

County

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

SW MADISON ST.

Federal

courthouse

Federal

office

building

Federal

park

City Hall

200 FEET

A
\href{https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ffmJ7_h_nGEERZUaUe2LhjALyCEbrNBQ/view}{federal
court order} in June limited the situations in which city police could
use tear gas. But the order does not apply to federal officers.

Each wave of gas would winnow the crowd of protesters, leaving behind a
smaller, more hardened group.

portland\_mt\_221.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_221-2000.jpg}

On some nights, federal officers and city police rushed out of the
courthouse to physically clear protesters from the fence, firing pepper
balls, rubber bullets and more tear gas.

portland\_mt\_229.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_229-2000.jpg}

They flushed protesters out of the parks and sometimes made arrests in
the streets.

portland\_mt\_185.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_185-2000.jpg}

Legal experts have questioned
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/portland-federal-legal-jurisdiction-courts.html}{how
far federal agents are allowed to chase protesters} beyond the
boundaries of the federal property they were sent to protect. The state
lost its bid to restrict how federal agents were operating on Portland's
streets, but several other challenges are still making their way through
the courts.

New York Times journalists \emph{witnessed federal forces range as far
as three blocks away from the Hatfield Courthouse}.

SW TAYLOR ST.

Office

building

Office

building

Parking garage

SW SALMON ST.

Blue shows

federal property

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

County

courthouse

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW SIXTH AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

Federal

courthouse

Chapman

Square

Multnomah County

Justice Center

City of Portland

office building

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

SW MADISON ST.

Terry Schrunk Plaza

(federally owned)

Federal

office building

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

SW TAYLOR ST.

SW SALMON ST.

Blue shows

federal property

County

courthouse

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW FOURTH AVE.

SW THIRD AVE.

SW SIXTH AVE.

SW FIFTH AVE.

SW MAIN ST.

County

Justice Center

Chapman

Square

Federal

courthouse

SW MADISON ST.

SW SECOND AVE.

SW FIRST AVE.

Federal

office

building

Federal

park

City Hall

SW JEFFERSON ST.

200 FEET

SW THIRD AVE.

SW SIXTH AVE.

SW SALMON ST.

County

courthouse

Federal

courthouse

Lownsdale

Square

SW MAIN ST.

County

Justice

Center

Chapman

Square

Federal

courthouse

SW MADISON ST.

Federal

office

building

Federal

park

City Hall

200 FEET

Nights would end after most protesters were cleared from the area and
the federal agents had retreated to the courthouse.

President Trump, who used images of the clashes in campaign ads, said
Portland would be lost without federal intervention, and vowed to
``dominate'' the protesters. Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon argued that the
agents' presence was a worrying sign of federal overreach that would
lead to greater violence.

Ms. Brown and administration officials negotiated the withdrawal of
federal agents from the city, but some officials insisted that the
forces would remain until federal buildings in the city were secure.

On Thursday, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288826742539464707}{renewed
his criticism} of Ms. Brown and her handling of the protests: ``We will
not be leaving until there is safety!''

portland\_mt\_161.jpg

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/24/portland-mapping-unrest/assets/images/portland_mt_161-2000.jpg}

Mike Baker, Sergio Olmos, Mason Trinca and Octavio Jones contributed
reporting.

Mike Baker, Sergio Olmos, Mason Trinca and Octavio Jones contributed
reporting. These photographs were taken over the course of a week of
protests in Portland.

\textbf{Correction:}~July 31, 2020

An earlier version of this graphic failed to identify a federal
property. It has been updated to identify the Gus J. Solomon U.S.
Courthouse.

Read 235 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
