Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}As the Pandemic
Forced Layoffs, C.E.O.s Gave Up Little

\url{https://nyti.ms/337DM7E}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-the-pandemic-forced-layoffs-ceos-gave-up-little}{%
\section{As the Pandemic Forced Layoffs, C.E.O.s Gave Up
Little}\label{as-the-pandemic-forced-layoffs-ceos-gave-up-little}}

Some corporate bosses offered to cut their pay, but most did not. Those
who did gave up less than 10 percent of what they received last year.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29ceopay1/merlin_169527321_ee36f0f1-b490-46bf-81f6-e7de975ece66-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-eavis}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-peter-eavis/author-peter-eavis-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-eavis}{Peter Eavis}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When the pandemic prompted companies to furlough or lay off thousands of
employees, some chief executives decided to show solidarity by forgoing
some of their pay.

But it turns out that their sacrifice was minimal.

A survey of some 3,000 public companies shows that the cuts --- which,
so far, have come in the form of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/24/business/economy/coronavirus-pay-cuts.html}{salary
reductions} --- were tiny compared with their total pay last year. Total
pay includes things like bonuses and stock awards that typically make up
the bulk of what corporate bosses take home.

Only a small percentage of the companies cut salaries for their senior
executives at all, which is surprising given that the pandemic has
crushed profits and sales for many companies, forcing large layoffs. But
even among businesses that did cut the boss's pay, two-thirds of the
chief executives took reductions that were equivalent to only 10 percent
or less of their 2019 compensation, according to an analysis by
CGLytics, a compensation analysis firm.

Companies in this group include the Walt Disney Company, Delta Air
Lines, United Airlines and Marriott International. All of those
businesses have laid off or furloughed employees or pressed workers to
take pay cuts.

This compensation analysis offers another example of how the coronavirus
pandemic has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/world/europe/coronavirus-inequality.html}{walloped
the working and middle classes} while mostly sparing the people at the
very top of the economic hierarchy.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{20h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{23h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{29h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

``These salary cuts were more window dressing than anything else,'' said
Liz Shuler, secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. The labor
federation on Wednesday released a report showing that companies in the
S\&P 500 stock index last year \href{https://aflcio.org/paywatch}{paid
chief executives on average 264 times as much as median employees}, down
from 287 times in 2018.

Of course, this analysis is incomplete because the year is not over. In
the coming months, corporate boards could decide to significantly reduce
the bonuses and stock options they hand out to top executives for 2020.
That would represent a big break from recent years when boards, which
are primarily made up of corporate executives and investors,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/24/business/highest-paid-ceos-2018.html}{approved
ever higher pay packages}.

A few chief executives have already taken a sizable hit. The survey
showed that Glenn Kelman,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/07/10/technology/a-start-up-shies-away-from-the-gig-economy.html}{chief
executive of Redfin}, a Seattle-based real estate brokerage, took a pay
cut that was equivalent to the \$284,000 he got in 2019. ``The reason we
did it is because we had to furlough or lay off more than a thousand
people,'' Mr. Kelman said when asked what motivated the decision to
withhold his salary. ``It's not just about the pay cut; it's about the
general sense that capitalism is not working for everyone.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/business/29ceopay2/merlin_175049490_9e723d76-05dd-4fec-bd4d-8cad5fcedd60-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

CGLytics surveyed the companies in the Russell 3000 index, which
comprises most of the publicly traded businesses in the United States,
and found that 419 companies had disclosed details of salary cuts. Only
about 10 percent of those companies cut salaries by more than 25 percent
of the executive's 2019 total ``realized'' compensation, a figure that
CGLytics came up with by adding up all the money and stock each boss
received last year. The firm values the stock at the price at which
trading ended on Dec. 31.

The price of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/20/business/coronavirus-trump-stock-market.html}{many
stocks fell sharply this spring} when the pandemic took hold. But stocks
can recover over time, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/business/recession-stock-market-coronavirus.html}{many
have soared since March}.

As it became clear that the pandemic was going to devastate the economy
and their businesses, many boards and chief executives appeared to sense
a need to tell workers and investors that they were sharing in the pain.

United Airlines said the executives' salary cuts were a recognition of
the impact of the pandemic and ``to lead by example.'' United, which has
been hit hard by a plunge in demand for air travel, is expected to start
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/business/united-airlines-furlough-36000.html}{furloughing
up to 36,000 workers} on Oct. 1. Oscar Munoz, who in May became United's
executive chairman after serving as chief executive, did not get salary
from March 10 through June 30, which amounted to a \$610,000 pay cut on
the \$2 million salary he is being paid this year. But the reduction was
a little less than 3 percent of the \$22.2 million Mr. Munoz took home
in 2019.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/05/business/united-ceo-oscar-munoz.html}{United's
new chief executive,} J. Scott Kirby, will give up around \$790,000 of
salary this year. That is equivalent to 9 percent of the \$8.7 million
that CGLytics estimates he received last year. United said that it was
``extremely unlikely'' that it would make 2020 bonus payments, which it
planned to set at 250 percent of salary, to its top executives.

Delta's chief executive, Ed Bastian, took a salary cut of around
\$714,000, or 5.35 percent of the total compensation he received in
2019, according to CGLytics. A Delta representative said the decline in
Delta's stock price and difficulties ahead for the airline would weigh
heavily on the value of Mr. Bastian's pay. The spokesman, Trebor
Banstetter, said the value of Mr. Bastian's total compensation this year
was likely to be down 58 percent from ``pre-pandemic projections,'' but
he did not provide details of how the company arrived at that figure.
Delta is asking its pilots
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/business/delta-tells-its-pilots-take-a-15-percent-pay-cut-and-keep-your-jobs.html}{to
take pay cuts in order to keep their jobs}.

Image

Arne M. Sorenson, the chief executive of Marriott International,
received a pay cut that amounted to less than 2 percent of the total
compensation he received last year.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York
Times

Disney awarded Robert A. Iger, its former chief executive who stepped
down in February, large compensation packages over the nearly 15 years
that he led the company. Mr. Iger, who is now executive chairman, gave
up his salary from the end of March through the end of the year. The
\$2.25 million in forgone pay is equivalent to 3.3 percent of Mr. Iger's
total realized compensation in 2019, according to CGLytics. Disney
furloughed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/business/coronavirus-disney-world-reopening.html}{tens
of thousands of workers} in March.

The hotel industry has also been hit hard by the pandemic and companies
like Marriott International have been furloughing and laying off
workers. The company's chief executive, Arne M. Sorenson, took a salary
cut that was equivalent to less than 2 percent of the \$66 million in
total compensation that CGLytics says he was paid in 2019. Connie Kim, a
Marriott spokeswoman, said nearly \$50 million of the compensation for
last year was related to stock appreciation rights granted nine to 10
years earlier.

Some companies merely deferred salary payments for senior executives,
rather than make outright cuts. General Motors deferred 30 percent of
the salary of its chief executive, Mary T. Barra, and other top leaders,
and 20 percent of other white-collar employees. The deferrals, which
began on April 1, were going to last for as long as six months, but on
Tuesday, General Motors told employees that it was ending the 20 percent
deferrals on Aug. 1. Ms. Barra and the other senior executives will
continue to defer 10 percent of their salaries. She made \$30 million in
total realized compensation last year, according to CGLytics.

When asked why the deferrals were ending sooner than expected, James R.
Cain, a company spokesman, said, ``The business demanded that we
conserve cash and it is recovering faster than we expected.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
