Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}As Trump Undercuts
Aid Talks, White House Says Extra Jobless Benefits Will Lapse

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fb2d6p}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-trump-undercuts-aid-talks-white-house-says-extra-jobless-benefits-will-lapse}{%
\section{As Trump Undercuts Aid Talks, White House Says Extra Jobless
Benefits Will
Lapse}\label{as-trump-undercuts-aid-talks-white-house-says-extra-jobless-benefits-will-lapse}}

President Trump signaled that he was not interested in a broad economic
recovery package that would have to be negotiated with Democrats, saying
he preferred a narrower plan.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29dc-virus-cong2/merlin_175079799_6a0adc4a-89d0-434a-81a6-e4696eb8bcca-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The prospects for a quick agreement between the Trump
administration and congressional Democrats on a new round of aid for the
ailing economy faded on Wednesday, as President Trump undercut his own
party's efforts to negotiate a deal and a top White House official
declared that a lifeline to unemployed workers would run out as
scheduled at week's end.

With negotiations barely started to find a middle ground between
Republicans' \$1 trillion plan and Democrats' \$3 trillion package, Mr.
Trump poured cold water on the entire enterprise, saying that he would
prefer a bare-bones package that would send ``payments to the people''
and protect them from being evicted.

``The rest of it, we're so far apart, we don't care,'' Mr. Trump said
before leaving the White House for an event in Texas. ``We really don't
care.''

The comments stoked questions about whether the president --- whose
re-election prospects, and his party's hold on the Senate, could turn on
the health of the economy --- was willing or able to find a compromise
to inject one last dose of stimulus before he faced voters in November.

``We're nowhere close to a deal,'' Mark Meadows, the White House chief
of staff, told reporters after leaving talks with top Democrats in the
office of Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California. He predicted that a
\$600-per-week enhanced unemployment benefit would lapse as scheduled on
July 31 without any action to restore it.

Republicans have proposed slashing the payments to \$200 per week, while
Democrats want to keep it through the end of the year. It was just one
of myriad issues dividing the two sides.

The breakdown reflects a predicament for Republicans that has placed Mr.
Trump in a difficult negotiating position. After the enactment of nearly
\$3 trillion in pandemic-related stimulus in the spring, many Senate
Republicans are opposed to additional deficit spending to fuel the
economy, meaning that any agreement would need to attract significant
support from Democrats to clear Congress.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fox-corporations-plunging-profit-is-cushioned-by-fox-news}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fox-corporations-plunging-profit-is-cushioned-by-fox-news}{Fox
Corporation's plunging profit is cushioned by Fox News.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trading-in-kodak-shares-comes-under-scrutiny}{11h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trading-in-kodak-shares-comes-under-scrutiny}{Trading
in Kodak shares comes under scrutiny.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#disney-lost-4-7-billion-last-quarter-but-its-newest-business-was-a-big-hit}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#disney-lost-4-7-billion-last-quarter-but-its-newest-business-was-a-big-hit}{Disney
lost \$4.7 billion last quarter, but its newest business was a big hit.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

But with the two sides deeply at odds over how to structure the package
and how large it should be, the administration's outreach to Democratic
leaders has failed to produce progress toward a deal.

With time running out, White House officials on Wednesday renewed their
calls for a temporary extension of the expiring unemployment insurance
benefits and a moratorium on evictions. But Democrats quickly rejected
that idea, which they have said would only sap momentum for other
critical aid --- including for states and cities, schools and health
care --- that must be approved quickly as Americans continue to suffer.

Senate Republicans did not include an extension of the eviction
moratorium in their \$1.1 trillion relief package, which Mr. Trump has
dismissed as ``semi-irrelevant,'' even though it was the product of
prolonged negotiations between Republican congressional leaders and his
own advisers. But the president signaled that he did not believe they
had driven a hard enough bargain with Democrats.

``The payments aren't enough,'' Mr. Trump said on Wednesday, though it
was not clear what payments he was referring to. ``They're not making
them high enough. The Democrats are not taking care of the people.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29dc-virus-cong/merlin_175085499_c098a5dc-f13d-4ce7-8b11-2b92daa1ae0a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Democratic measure includes \$1,200 direct payments to Americans ---
the same level that Republicans proposed. The jobless benefits Democrats
have proposed are three times as large as what Republicans are offering.

Mr. Trump also rebuked Republicans for their
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/republicans-trump-fbi-building-virus-relief-bill.html}{reluctance
to provide \$1.75 billion} for the construction of a new F.B.I.
headquarters in downtown Washington, a longtime priority of his, and one
that could potentially increase the value of his own hotel nearby.

``Republicans should go back to school and learn,'' the president said.
``They need a new building. It's a bad building.''

Mr. Trump's insistence on including the money, unrelated to the
coronavirus or the recession, in the aid package has rankled Senate
Republicans and left many to wonder how serious the administration is
about sealing a deal with Democrats.

Democrats were equally pessimistic on Wednesday about reaching a
compromise, and they placed the blame squarely on Republicans for opting
to wait until late July, just as the jobless aid was expiring, to start
negotiations on a relief package.

``What short-term extension?'' Ms. Pelosi asked after meeting with
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Meadows and Senator Chuck Schumer
of New York, the minority leader. ``There is no short-term extension.
They don't have anything.''

Several Republicans also appeared reluctant to embrace the prospect when
asked on Wednesday. One Republican aide likened the idea of a short-term
bill to paying a ransom twice.

``Our Republican friends don't seem to come close to meeting the
moment,'' Mr. Schumer said.

Analysts in Washington said they saw a rising risk that lawmakers might
not reach a comprehensive agreement before a scheduled recess early next
month.

``These negotiations are in a bad, bad place,'' said Jon Lieber, the
managing director for the United States at the Eurasia Group and a
former adviser to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority
leader.

``There is no progress being made at the moment, which reflects the
strong hand the Democrats think they have, the ineptitude of the
administration and the lack of consensus within the Senate G.O.P.,'' Mr.
Lieber said.

Republican lawmakers acknowledged that the path to agreement appeared
daunting, though some insisted that a consensus deal could emerge.

``There's no agreement on anything --- I'd call it an exchanging of
views, part of the catharsis you've got to go through before we actually
get to a position,'' said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas.
``People are frustrated, some people are scared, some people are worried
--- I mean, we're in the middle of a pandemic.''

``And then you've got an election coming up, and almost everything is
being seen through that lens, which makes it hard to find common
ground,'' he added. ``We're going to try everything else that doesn't
work until we finally get to what does work. It's a process.''

The process this week has revealed deep divisions in the Senate
Republican caucus. For instance, Mr. Cornyn said he opposed a short-term
agreement like the one Mr. Trump floated on Wednesday.

Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, said such a stopgap bill
``makes sense to me.''

``I asked the powers that be to take the spending porn out of the
bills,'' Mr. Kennedy said, echoing complaints about Mr. Trump's F.B.I.
project and other proposals in the Republican plan.

``I think it's going to be difficult in the short term to get agreement
on a larger package,'' he said, ``and people need help.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
