Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Scandal and Infighting
Erupt Within India's Ailing Congress Party

\url{https://nyti.ms/32Lw0zP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{scandal-and-infighting-erupt-within-indias-ailing-congress-party}{%
\section{Scandal and Infighting Erupt Within India's Ailing Congress
Party}\label{scandal-and-infighting-erupt-within-indias-ailing-congress-party}}

Sachin Pilot, a prominent Congress politician, has been sidelined after
being accused of bribing members to defect to Narendra Modi's Bharatiya
Janata Party.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/world/23india-congress1/23india-congress1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-kai-schultz/author-kai-schultz-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/22/reader-center/author-Suhasini-Raj/author-Suhasini-Raj-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/suhasini-raj}{Suhasini Raj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JAIPUR, India --- As the once-formidable Indian National Congress party
began to crumble in recent years, Sachin Pilot, a young, well-connected
politician, stepped up to help his bloc
\href{https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/congress-portrait-of-a-party-in-decline-746460.html}{weather
one crisis after another}.

Mr. Pilot's parents were Congress stalwarts and served in elite
government positions. He is close with members of the Gandhi family, who
have controlled the party for decades, dominating India's electorate
until Prime Minister Narendra Modi first swept into office six years ago
on a wave of Hindu nationalism.

Many thought Mr. Pilot, 42, who represented Congress as deputy chief
minister in the northern state of Rajasthan, had the perfect résumé to
lead the party to a rebirth.

Instead, India's political establishment has been jolted by accusations
this month that Mr. Pilot was secretly working on behalf of Mr. Modi's
Bharatiya Janata Party, possibly in an effort to depose a chief minister
he had fallen out with. Mr. Pilot has denied those accusations.

Congress loyalists fear the scandal is another severe blow to the
survival of the party, which led the country to independence more than
70 years ago but has been cracking internally under the weight of huge
Bharatiya Janata Party victories led by Mr. Modi. Party officials in
Rajasthan immediately called for dozens of Congress politicians to move
into a hotel in a desperate effort to keep them from defecting.

As the country's political discourse has been dominated by nationalism
and Hindu-centric policies, many also worry that the weakness of
Congress, which traditionally has championed minorities, harms India's
democracy more broadly.

The scandal broke out in recent days when party officials accused Mr.
Pilot of
\href{https://theprint.in/politics/sachin-pilot-offered-me-rs-35-crore-to-join-bjp-says-congress-mla/464610/}{offering
multimillion-dollar bribes} to fellow Congress leaders and urging them
to defect to the Bharatiya Janata Party over a period of several months.

The fallout was swift and unforgiving. Party leadership removed Mr.
Pilot from his post and accused 18 other politicians of colluding with
him. Ashok Gehlot, the chief minister in Rajasthan, called his deputy a
``worthless person'' and released audiotapes that he said implicated Mr.
Pilot in a conspiracy to buy off officials ``like goats in a market.''

``Speaking good English, giving good quotes and being handsome isn't
everything,'' Mr. Gehlot
\href{https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/rajasthan-crisis-ashok-gehlot-on-sachin-pilot-handsome-with-good-english-not-enough-2263222}{told
reporters}.

Mr. Pilot, who did not respond to requests from The New York Times for
comment,
\href{https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/exclusive-sachin-pilot-interview-congress-rajasthan-political-crisis-ashok-gehlot-1700675-2020-07-15}{maintained
his innocence in an interview with India Today}, insisting that he had
no intention of joining the Bharatiya Janata Party. He accused Mr.
Gehlot of trying to ``humiliate me'' and block him from a bigger role in
the Congress party.

It was one of the most public expressions yet of resentment within
Congress that the party is failing to make room for a younger group of
leaders to emerge. The upshot is that Mr. Modi's party is stronger than
ever.

Gilles Verniers, an assistant professor of political science at Ashoka
University, said Congress has failed to give incentives to officials to
stick with the party, leading some to ``seek greener pastures.'' In
recent years, dozens of senior Congress leaders have
\href{https://www.theweek.in/news/india/2020/03/12/aaya-ram-gaya-ram-a-contemporary-history-of-defections-to-the-bjp.html}{left
the party}, fed up with a lack of visionary leadership.

Mr. Modi's B.J.P. has seized on the turmoil, steadily undermining
Congress in the few states that it still controls. In Madhya Pradesh,
Jyotiraditya Scindia, another Congress star who was close to the Gandhis
and came from a long line of princes, defected
\href{https://www.indiatoday.in/india/story/madhya-pradesh-govt-crisis-floor-test-kamal-nath-congress-bjp-1657768-2020-03-20}{to
the B.J.P.} in March, causing Congress to lose its fragile hold on the
state government.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/world/23india-congress4/merlin_170339556_44034c8b-3ed4-4108-93e2-30faab2edb6a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In an interview, Satish Poonia, the president of the B.J.P. in
Rajasthan, said ``all of the allegations against us are false.''
Instead, he described the conflict as a bitter generational rift between
Mr. Pilot and older Congress leaders like Mr. Gehlot, 69 --- a view also
shared by many within Congress.

India has a long history of power grabs and high-level defections, and
local news outlets have published
\href{https://www.indiatoday.in/india-today-insight/story/was-sachin-pilot-working-with-the-bjp-1701025-2020-07-16}{accounts
from unnamed B.J.P. officials in Rajasthan describing a political coup
attempt gone awry}, with a disgruntled Mr. Pilot at its center.

\href{https://www.ndtv.com/india-news/rajasthan-action-today-3rd-congress-meet-court-battle-2266139}{Rajasthan}
is a large, politically competitive state, and home to some of India's
vital heritage and cultural sites. Congress controls 107 seats in the
state legislature, barely enough to form a majority government. Just a
few crossovers would shift the balance of power to the B.J.P.

Congress leaders in Rajasthan are deeply rattled. Last week, Mr.
Gehlot's government moved more than 100 elected officials into the
Fairmont Hotel, a five-star resort in the city of Jaipur, the capital of
Rajasthan, hoping to prevent them from leaving for the B.J.P. The fear
was that if the lawmakers remained at home, it would be easier to bribe
or entice them to defect.

On a recent day this week, riot buses and police officers dressed in
camouflage blocked the resort's entrance. Inside, politicians attended
yoga classes and watched Bollywood movies in a marble-floored lobby.

Rafeek Khan, a member of Rajasthan's Legislative Assembly who is among
those staying at the hotel, said he had no idea when they would be
allowed to leave.

``The B.J.P. is playing with democracy,'' he said. ``They think one can
be bought if enough money is offered. That is the message the B.J.P. is
sending to the electorate.''

In the coming days, Rajasthan's legislature is
\href{https://www.news18.com/news/politics/relief-for-sachin-pilot-as-rajasthan-high-court-says-no-action-against-rebel-mlas-till-friday-2727109.html}{expected
to decide} whether Mr. Pilot and the 18 other rebel officials will lose
their seats, which would make forming a new government under the B.J.P.
much tougher.

The decline of Congress accelerated last year, when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/01/world/asia/political-stumbling-leaves-an-indian-heir-less-apparent.html}{Rahul
Gandhi}, the great-grandson of India's first prime minister, Jawaharlal
Nehru,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/03/world/asia/rahul-gandhi-resigns.html}{resigned}
from his post as president after a humiliating general election defeat
against Mr. Modi.

Image

Cutouts of Rahul Gandhi, center, his sister Priyanka Gandhi, right, and
mother Sonia Gandhi, left, at a rally in New Delhi last
year.Credit...Rajat Gupta/EPA, via Shutterstock

Many Indians see the Congress party as a protector of the nation's
founding secular values, but far too beholden to the Gandhis, who are
often perceived as a symbol of India's Anglicized upper class. Mr.
Gandhi, his mother, Sonia, who assumed the role of interim president,
and his sister, Priyanka, all still call the party's shots.

Mr. Modi continually hammers Congress for being a family dynasty, and
his party's embrace of a brawny Hindu nationalism that emphasizes
India's Hindu heritage has tracked well with voters.

Rasheed Kidwai, a former journalist who wrote a book about Sonia Gandhi,
said Congress simply could not compete. ``They are going through the
motions,'' he said. ``They are very demoralized. They don't have any
hope.''

Analysts say trouble has been brewing for Congress in Rajasthan since
2018, when the party scored a victory over the B.J.P. in state elections
and retook control of the state government after five years in the
opposition.

In his interview with India Today, Mr. Pilot said he proposed himself as
chief minister, citing his role in helping secure that win. But he
ultimately relented to an agreement to take the second spot behind Mr.
Gehlot under the impression that he would soon be elevated.

Mr. Pilot, whose name comes from the fact that his father was a
decorated combat pilot, apparently felt sidelined by Mr. Gehlot, and
bitterness between the men grew.

``This was a badly handled show and one more state could slip out of
Congress' hands,'' said Neerja Chowdhury, a political analyst in New
Delhi. ``It is a failure of national leadership.''

Hari Kumar and Jeffrey Gettleman contributed reporting from New Delhi.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
