Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Federal Officials Turn to a New
Testing Strategy as Infections Surge

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NNntDT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58a6e0-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58a6e1-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58a6e2-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58a6e3-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58cdf0-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2e58cdf1-f1c3-11ea-8a7f-39e977841eba\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{federal-officials-turn-to-a-new-testing-strategy-as-infections-surge}{%
\section{Federal Officials Turn to a New Testing Strategy as Infections
Surge}\label{federal-officials-turn-to-a-new-testing-strategy-as-infections-surge}}

Millions of additional coronavirus tests may be processed with
``pooling,'' enabling widespread surveillance as the country struggles
to reopen.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/01/science/01virus-testing01/merlin_173144685_aadd1471-00a0-4247-a191-0162db76c67b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/apoorva-mandavilli}{Apoorva
Mandavilli}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 1, 2020Updated Aug. 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Trump administration plans to adopt a decades-old testing strategy
that will vastly increase the number of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/health/coronavirus-pool-te.html}{coronavirus
tests} performed in the United States and permit widespread tracking of
the virus as it surges across the country.

The method, called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/health/coronavirus-pool-te.html}{pooled
testing}, signals a paradigm shift. Instead of carefully rationing tests
to only those with symptoms, pooled testing would enable frequent
surveillance of asymptomatic people. Mass identification of coronavirus
infections could hasten the reopening of schools, offices and factories.

``We're in intensive discussions about how we're going to do it,'' Dr.
Anthony S. Fauci, the country's leading infectious disease expert, said
in an interview. ``We hope to get this off the ground as soon as
possible.''

In a call with reporters on Wednesday, Adm. Brett Giroir, deputy
secretary of health and human services, said he expected the program to
be up and running by the end of the summer.

``My assessment is that the data is very strong,'' he said. By the time
students return to universities, ``pooling will be very mature.''

Given the many advantages, experts said, health officials should have
embraced pooled testing much sooner. The United States military has used
the technique at its bases worldwide, and has done so since it first
\href{https://projecteuclid.org/euclid.aoms/1177731363}{tested men for
syphilis} in the 1940s.

Health officials in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/world/asia/coronavirus-testing-china-wuhan.html}{China},
Germany, Israel and Thailand have all deployed pooled testing for the
coronavirus. In Nebraska, a state scientist found a loophole that
allowed him to circumvent federal prohibitions on the method. In
Memphis, Dr. Manoj Jain, an infectious disease expert familiar with
low-cost methods in India, has forged an ambitious plan to use the
strategy.

``I'm just wondering why the federal government does not mandate now
that this be done to preserve the testing capacity,'' said Dr. Jain, of
Emory University. ``We really haven't learned from our counterparts in
Europe and Asia.''

Here's how the technique works: A university, for example, takes samples
from every one of its thousands of students by nasal swab, or perhaps
saliva. Setting aside part of each individual's sample, the lab combines
the rest into a batch holding five to 10 samples each.

The pooled sample is tested for coronavirus infection. Barring an
unexpected outbreak, just 1 percent or 2 percent of the students are
likely to be infected, so the overwhelming majority of pools are likely
to test negative.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T10:37:22.362Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4a77847f}{As
  senators return to Washington, an impasse over a virus relief package
  looms.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But if a pool yields a positive result, the lab would retest the
reserved parts of each individual sample that went into the pool,
pinpointing the infected student. The strategy could be employed for
\href{http://faculty.haas.berkeley.edu/ned/GroupTestingInAPandemic.pdf}{as
little as \$3 per person per day}, according an estimate from economists
at the University of California, Berkeley.

By testing large numbers of people at a fraction of the cost, time and
necessary ingredients, pooled surveillance could be widely adopted by
workplaces, religious organizations, and schools and universities
seeking to reopen.

The method works best in such settings, where the number infected is
likely to be low, rather than in high-risk workplaces like meatpacking
plants.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/01/science/01virus-testing02/merlin_172841943_76660849-4240-49ad-954d-104135bdf091-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The technique was used to process tests for H.I.V. as that epidemic took
root in the United States, recalled Dr. Fauci, who said he had been
recommending it to federal officials for months. ``Right now, there
clearly is a very open, sympathetic ear to this,'' he said.

Asked why the administration's stance has changed now, Dr. Fauci
referred to the alarming rise in infections nationwide. ``Obviously,
things are not going in the right direction,'' he said.

In the absence of federal guidance, some health officials have forged
ahead on their own.

In mid-March, as the number of infections in Nebraska climbed, the state
was running out of supplies needed for coronavirus tests. The state lab
had for years screened pooled samples of donated blood for pathogens and
from pregnant women for sexually transmitted diseases.

Peter Iwen, the lab's director, estimated that pooling coronavirus
samples could conserve supplies and
\href{https://academic.oup.com/ajcp/article/153/6/715/5822023}{increase
testing capacity} by at least 70 percent. He tried to persuade officials
at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to allow its assay to
be used for pooled testing.

``They told me it's an interesting concept, that's as far as it went,''
he said.

Dr. Iwen also appealed to the Food and Drug Administration. Officials
said the agency could not comment on pending applications for emergency
use authorizations.

But Gov. Pete Ricketts of Nebraska had
\href{https://governor.nebraska.gov/press/gov-ricketts-issues-emergency-declaration-covid-19}{declared
a state of emergency} on March 13, which meant that certain federal and
state rules could be superseded. With permission from the governor, Dr.
Iwen moved to put pooled testing in place.

\textbf{\emph{{[}}\href{http://on.fb.me/1paTQ1h}{\emph{Like the Science
Times page on Facebook.}}} ****** \emph{\textbar{} Sign up for the}
\textbf{\href{http://nyti.ms/1MbHaRU}{\emph{Science Times
newsletter.}}\emph{{]}}}

Looking for ideas to contain a coming surge in coronavirus infections,
Mayor Jim Strickland of Memphis called Dr. Jain, who recalled a World
Health Organization mission to India in November where he had seen
pooled testing for tuberculosis.

Dr. Jain, like Dr. Iwen, found that in the federal government, ``there
was no one really encouraging this to be done.'' But he proceeded with
the mayor's blessing. Hundreds of Memphis firefighters, police officers
and city workers volunteered to swab their own noses.

The lab tested the samples in batches of three, five, seven or 10, and
determined that pooling seemed to work best with batches of seven. The
data were submitted to the F.D.A.; the agency has responded positively,
but has not yet authorized the pooled method, Dr. Jain said.

Pooled surveillance has its limitations. The savings in time and expense
thin out when the number of infected people rises above 10 per 100.
Because so many pools then are likely to yield positive results,
laboratories wind up testing huge numbers of individual samples.

Nebraska, for example, suspended its program about a month ago when
meatpacking plants in the state exploded with coronavirus infections and
the rate of positive samples arriving at the lab spiked above 10
percent.

The technique also loses accuracy beyond that range. Dr. Jain said that
weakness was not a pressing concern, because pooled testing's main goal
is to identify people who have a high viral load and could transmit the
virus, not simply to find every infected person.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``This is not a diagnostic test, but a screening test,'' he said. ``The
bar can be much lower for a screening test.''

The F.D.A. has
\href{https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/coronavirus-covid-19-update-facilitating-diagnostic-test-availability-asymptomatic-testing-and}{released
guidelines} for developers to adapt their tests to pooled samples. The
agency is also asking manufacturers to permit labs to use the tests
without being explicitly authorized by the F.D.A. to do so.

``If the F.D.A. is able to do this, I think it would be a big deal for
the U.S.,'' Dr. Iwen said.

Federal law forbids any lab
\href{https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/CLIA}{without
the right credentials} from conducting diagnostic tests and revealing
the results to patients. But on June 19, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, which oversees lab testing, said it did not consider
\href{https://www.cms.gov/files/document/06-19-2020-frequently-asked-questions-covid-surveillance-testing.pdf}{pooled
surveillance to be diagnostic} --- meaning any private or academic lab
can screen and reveal the grouped results from a pool to the set of
patients who contributed samples.

But if a batch tests positive, the retesting of each patient's sample
would be considered a diagnosis and need to come from a certified lab
--- tacking on a delay of several days for the verdict --- noted Kelly
Wroblewski, chief of infectious diseases at the Association of Public
Health Laboratories.

``That's where I think we probably start to disagree with pooling as a
strategy,'' Ms. Wroblewski said. The F.D.A. and C.M.S. have always
required screening tests to be done at a certified lab, so the change in
policy needs further discussion, she said.

She added that pooling was also unlikely to be useful at most state
labs, which now tend to see samples from at least 15 infected people for
every 100, well above the recommended cutoff of 10 percent. ``I don't
think it's going to solve all our problems,'' she said.

Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, a former director of the C.D.C., warned that any
testing strategy was unlikely to succeed without isolation of those
tested until results are available, and reasonable options for isolating
away from the home for anyone who is found to be infected.

``What I find both frustrating and dangerous is the consistent failure
to understand that testing, in and of itself, pooled or not, does little
or no good,'' Dr. Frieden said in a email.

``What good is testing if the results take four days to come back and
infectious people aren't isolated in the interim? What good is testing
if contact tracing doesn't identify and warn exposed people quickly?''

Dr. Fauci acknowledged that the country was not adequately isolating
people. But, he added, above a certain level of infection, ``the core
paradigm of identification, isolation and contact tracing just doesn't
work.''

Faced with rising cases in multiple states, he said, the administration
is consulting with statisticians to estimate the ideal proportions for a
pool in a particular location.

In the meantime, more states have come around to the idea. Dr. Iwen said
that in the past three weeks, about a dozen state lab directors had
contacted him to ask about Nebraska's experience.

Even in states like Arizona, where the percentage of positive tests may
exceed 20 percent, pooled testing could be used in settings such as
schools where the prevalence is likely to be much lower, he said ---
especially as the shortage of testing supplies continues to be a
problem.

``We're being asked to expand surveillance testing to large populations
of people, and there quite frankly is not enough reagents to be able to
do that,'' he said, referring to chemicals used in diagnostic tests.
``It's becoming a national discussion now.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
