Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Tammy Duckworth Is Battle
Tested. Could She Help Joe Biden in His Biggest Mission?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Ze4KXE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tammy-duckworth-is-battle-tested-could-she-help-joe-biden-in-his-biggest-mission}{%
\section{Tammy Duckworth Is Battle Tested. Could She Help Joe Biden in
His Biggest
Mission?}\label{tammy-duckworth-is-battle-tested-could-she-help-joe-biden-in-his-biggest-mission}}

The Biden campaign is vetting Ms. Duckworth, a senator and a veteran
with a compelling life story, as a potential running mate. ``I can push
back against Trump in a way others can't,'' she says.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/24/us/politics/00duckworth1/00duckworth1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 25, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Dan Milberg is a retired Army helicopter pilot who voted for Donald J.
Trump in 2016, and does not wish to vote for him again. But before he
can consider pulling the lever for former Vice President Joseph R. Biden
Jr., he needs to know who his running mate will be.

``It might be someone too progressive,'' said Mr. Milberg, who lives in
Robertsville, Mo.

The one person who would put him at ease, Mr. Milberg said, is the pilot
whose seemingly lifeless body he lifted from a helicopter in 2004, her
legs blown off by a rocket-Â­propelled grenade not far from Baghdad:
Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/08/us/politics/tucker-carlson-tammy-duckworth.html}{Tammy
Duckworth} of Illinois.

It is not so much the event that indelibly marked both of their lives
and earned Ms. Duckworth a purple heart that draws him to her, Mr.
Milberg said. Rather, he continued, she ``is moderate enough that I
think she can be appealing.''

Ms. Duckworth is among more than one dozen women
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{who
have been considered by the Biden campaign} to join his ticket, and she
is among a smaller group asked to submit documents for vetting. But she
is rarely talked up by Washington's consultant class.

She is not one of the Democratic senators who ran for the top job this
cycle and then became part of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/politics/biden-vice-president-voters.html}{vice-presidential
search}. She is not from a battleground state; vice-presidential
candidates often are. She is not among the running-mate contenders who
are black; many leading Democrats feel Mr. Biden should choose a black
woman, in part because of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/politics/polling-george-floyd-protests-racism.html}{growing
public attention to and support} for fighting systemic racism. Her
politics are in some ways abstruse; she largely votes with her party but
she is not particularly identified with any progressive cause, other
than an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/16/us/politics/vote-vets-concerned-veterans-america.html}{often
bipartisan} distaste for protracted foreign entanglements.

But presidential candidates generally try to find a running mate who can
both complement and highlight their own political qualities, and in that
sense, some experts say, Ms. Duckworth fits the bill.

``Let's say Biden makes this all about restoring decency in America ---
you are looking at people you think can help solidify that,'' said Joel
Benenson, a chief strategist for President Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton's presidential campaigns.

``Tammy Duckworth has some policy chops,'' he said. ``She is obviously
someone who has been prominent enough to speak at the last three
Democratic conventions. She served in the House, she won a Senate seat
and she brings credentials around armed services and veterans. She is
center left, and you know I think that is where Biden is.''

Ms. Duckworth, who has two daughters, was the first senator to give
birth while in office and the first to bring her newborn to the floor
for a vote. Her mother is Thai of Chinese descent, and her father was a
white veteran who fell on such hard times that Ms. Duckworth once helped
support the family while growing up by selling flowers on the side of
the road in Honolulu.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/02/us/politics/00duckworth3/merlin_137064162_ce9ac2cb-eccd-4835-a4aa-c28f7d83c5ad-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Her background and experience could prove a boon in places around the
country that resemble Southern Illinois, firmly Trump territory but
where she too has prevailed.

``I can push back against Trump in a way others can't,'' Ms. Duckworth
said in a telephone interview from her car last week as she waited to
attend a Juneteenth demonstration in Grant Park in Chicago.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``I can say, `Listen, that American flag is the same flag that would
drape my father's coffin, my coffin, my husband's coffin and my
brother's.' It has draped them for generations,'' she said. ``No one
respects that flag more than I have. But I will respect the right to
protest it, too.''

Two people with knowledge of the vetting process say that Ms.
Duckworth's early interviews with the Biden campaign were impressive
enough to make her a contender.

Ms. Duckworth, 52, was born Ladda Duckworth in Bangkok. Her father, who
served two tours in Vietnam, moved the family around Asia as a program
director for the United Nations and for the private sector. ``I got to
see America in many ways through the eyes of other nations,'' she said.
(She is fluent in Thai and Indonesian.)

He moved the family to Hawaii after losing his job, when Ms. Duckworth
was in her last year of high school. The family was forced to live in a
low-rent hotel in Waikiki with the financial help of a 90-year-old woman
who volunteered at the local American Legion, making do with food
stamps, school lunches and her odd jobs. ``I learned about the kindness
of people,'' she said.

After graduating from the University of Hawaii, she headed to Washington
to pursue a master of arts in international affairs at George Washington
University, largely because she wanted to join the foreign service.
While there, she joined the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps in part
for the class credits.

``I didn't crave to join the military,'' she said. ``But I just
absolutely fell in love with the Army. Even during basic training, I,
many times, locked myself in the latrines to cry my eyes out. But
because it was so hard in the Army, it didn't matter that I was a little
Asian girl. It was all about, Can you shoot straight? Can you show
leadership abilities?'' She moved to Illinois and joined the Illinois
National Guard in 1996.

Image

Ms. Duckworth testified during a Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee
hearing in 2005, after she was injured in Iraq.Credit...Chip
Somodevilla/Reuters

Her colleagues in the military described Ms. Duckworth as deliberate and
serious when in uniform, but jovial and even silly during downtime.
``You'd be lying under the helicopter out in the sand,'' Mr. Milberg
said, ``any subject could pop up and we would be making jokes and
carrying on.''

In 2004, Randy Sikowski was an operations officer in the Illinois
National Guard charged with finding commissioned officers for a mission
to Iraq, and Ms. Duckworth was the first to raise her hand. The unit was
stationed in Balad, known as ``Mortaritaville'' because of the constant
incoming fire.

The day of the event that would change Ms. Duckworth's life forever was
``a pretty generic one,'' Mr. Milberg said. They buzzed around moving
people and supplies, stopped at a base in Baghdad to pick up some
Christmas presents, then had a milkshake before making one last-minute
pickup.

Ms. Duckworth had been doing the flying all day so Mr. Milberg requested
to take the last flight, enjoying his gentle dives between the palm
trees. Suddenly, about 15 minutes from their destination, three large
noises and a pop echoed through the helicopter, which started shaking
violently.

Mr. Milberg managed to land the aircraft on a small strip of open woods.
Only then did he look over.

A grenade had punctured the floor of the cockpit near his partner.

``I saw Tammy leaning against the instrument panel. Her head was resting
on it, facing me. Her face was grayish colored,'' he recalled. ``I
pretty much thought the worst.''

He and others dragged her to safety through a large field.

``We were running through this stuff trying to carry her,'' he said.
``We would fall, get back up, walk two steps, fall.''

Mr. Sikowski did not see the woman he recruited for that mission again
until the following year, when he went to see Ms. Duckworth at Walter
Reed National Military Medical Center. ``I will never forget coming
around the corner,'' he said, choking back tears. ``Tammy was in a
wheelchair. I still remember what she said to me: `I don't know how you
made it there after I left.' She was worried about me.''

That summer, Kevin Conlon, an activist who raises money for Democrats,
got a call. ``A person says, `This is Captain Tammy Duckworth. I am
calling from Walter Reed Hospital. I was in Iraq, I got shot down, but I
want to run for Congress. Can you help me?''' (She discharged herself
from Walter Reed early in order to begin campaigning.)

Ms. Duckworth was already on the radar screens of Senator Richard J.
Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who had seen her testify at a hearing on
military health care just a few months after her injury, and Rahm
Emanuel, at the time a congressman in charge of the Democratic Party's
recruitment efforts for the 2006 election.

Mr. Emanuel was also making a big effort to get veterans to run.

``She is very methodical,'' he said ``We started to get to know each
other before I actually recruited her.''

Ms. Duckworth narrowly lost that first bid in 2006 for an open seat in
the Chicago suburbs to Representative Peter Roskam, a Republican. Weeks
later, she was named director of the Illinois Department of Veterans
Affairs. In 2009, she moved to the post of assistant secretary in the
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.

In 2012, the Tea Party stalwart Joe Walsh, a first-term congressman, saw
his House district redrawn to be more Democratic. Ms. Duckworth made
another run, and she easily won.

Mr. Walsh still gripes about that 2012 race, describing it as one that
Ms. Duckworth was ``handpicked'' to win. The Democrats, he said, ``set
her up with a wonderful congressional district that was impossible for
me to win.''

Representative Cheri Bustos, another Illinois Democrat, said Ms.
Duckworth has not had it easy. She recalled seeing her at a lunch event
struggling with her tray and her lingering injuries. ``It occurred to me
to ask her, `Tammy, are you ever in pain?' And she looked at me with a
smile and said, `Yeah.' That's Tammy. She never complains.''

Four years after her first House win, just a few months after having her
first child, she easily defeated Senator Mark S. Kirk, a Republican, in
a race for the seat once held by Mr. Obama.

Image

Ms. Duckworth on stage as Michelle Obama spoke at an event sponsored by
the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America in 2008.Credit...Damon
Winter/The New York Times

In the Senate, Ms. Duckworth is best known for working on veterans and
military issues, like a bill to help reduce veteran suicide and to help
returning veterans find jobs in the private sector.

Her dramatic military story endears her to audiences, but her
hardscrabble upbringing and life as a working mom are what help her
connect. ``Once they let a soldier through the door at the Corn Growers
Association, then I get to talk to them about everything else,'' she
said.

But she does not shrug away her brush with death.

``Not a day goes by that I don't wake up and think of Dan carrying me
through the field,'' she said. ``I wake up every day thinking I am never
going to make Dan regret saving my life.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
