Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/travel}{Travel}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/travel}{Travel}\textbar{}The Most Important Word in the
Hospitality Industry? `Clean'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eIkxE2}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026620-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026621-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026622-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026623-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026624-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b0026625-f1c5-11ea-afae-53b463e59741\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-most-important-word-in-the-hospitality-industry-clean}{%
\section{The Most Important Word in the Hospitality Industry?
`Clean'}\label{the-most-important-word-in-the-hospitality-industry-clean}}

The world's largest hotel companies have all come forward in recent
weeks to announce new cleaning playbooks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/05/travel/05travel-hygiene/merlin_171384354_14b5db20-04b6-4408-95a4-76eecd27a94e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Sarah Firshein

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In February, news from the \href{https://www.wynnlasvegas.com/}{Wynn Las
Vegas} included plans for Valentine's Day (among the offerings: a
``Lover's Menu for Two'') and National Margarita Day (four new
cocktails).

What a difference a pandemic makes.

Three months later, the casino resort
\href{https://www.visitwynn.com/documents/Wynn-Health-Plan.pdf}{announced}
a much more sober initiative, the ``Wynn Las Vegas Health \&
Disinfection Program.'' The 28-page
\href{https://www.visitwynn.com/documents/Wynn-Health-Plan.pdf}{memo}
lays out how the 2,700-room property will address health and hygiene
when it reopens. Out with mezcal and barhopping; in with thermal
cameras, elevator capacity limits and disinfection protocols for the
Chipper Champ, a chip-sorting machine.

According to the
\href{https://www.ahla.com/covid-19s-impact-hotel-industry}{American
Hotel \& Lodging Association,} an industry group, the coronavirus
outbreak has cost hotels in the United States more than \$23 billion in
room revenue since mid-February. As these properties prepare for a new
operational reality --- one that must balance federal, state and local
laws and consumer anxiety about getting sick --- the world's largest
hotel companies have all come forward in recent weeks to announce new
cleaning playbooks.

``The first question that comes to mind when someone's making the
decision to book is: `Am I going to be safe?''' said
\href{https://www.bu.edu/hospitality/profile/suzanne-markham-bagnera/}{Suzanne
Markham Bagnera}, Ph.D., assistant clinical professor and chair of the
undergraduate program in the School of Hospitality Administration at
Boston University. ``Cleaning has traditionally been a back-of-the-house
or behind-the-scenes tactic, hotels are now needing to bring that to the
center stage.''

Program names riff on the hottest word in hospitality right now: clean.
There's
\href{https://newsroom.hilton.com/corporate/news/hilton-defining-new-standard-of-cleanliness}{Hilton
CleanStay}, Choice Hotels'
\href{https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/choice-hotels-announces-commitment-to-clean-initiative-301052148.html}{Commitment
to Clean}, Best Western's
\href{https://www.bestwestern.com/en_US/hotels/discover-best-western/we-care-clean.html}{We
Care Clean}, \href{https://www.omnihotels.com/omni-safe-and-clean}{Omni
Safe \& Clean} and
\href{https://www.ihg.com/content/us/en/customer-care/clean-promise}{IHG
Clean Promise}. Four Seasons has
\href{https://press.fourseasons.com/news-releases/2020/lead-with-care-program/}{Lead
With Care}, Wyndham has
\href{https://corporate.wyndhamhotels.com/news-releases/wyndham-hotels-resorts-launches-new-count-on-us-initiative-to-build-confidence-among-guests-and-to-support-franchisees-as-it-unveils-early-plans-to-welcome-back-travelers/}{Count
on Us}, Mandarin Oriental has
\href{https://www.mandarinoriental.com/special-notice}{We Care},
Rosewood has
\href{https://www.rosewoodhotels.com/en/covid-19-update}{Commitment to
Care.} Marriott launched a
\href{https://news.marriott.com/news/2020/04/21/marriott-international-launches-global-cleanliness-council-to-promote-even-higher-standards-of-cleanliness-in-the-age-of-covid-19}{Global
Cleanliness Council}; Hyatt, a
\href{https://www.hyatt.com/info/global-care-and-cleanliness-commitment}{Global
Care \& Cleanliness Commitment}. Topping it off is the American Hotel \&
Lodging Association's \href{https://www.ahla.com/safestay}{Safe Stay,} a
list of general industry recommendations.

``It's not about what these names say outright --- it's about what they
signify,'' said \href{https://www.operativewords.com/}{Anthony Shore,} a
linguist who helps name products and companies. ``We used to take a
clean hotel room for granted and hope that hotels would deliver. But
now, because we associate the word `clean' with something that is
virus-free, it has become more loaded than it used to be.''

Although there are no hotel-specific disinfection guidelines from the
Centers for Disease Control, the agency's general Covid-19 resources ---
including
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/disinfecting-building-facility.html}{everyday
steps for employers} and
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/reopen-guidance.html}{best
reopening practices for businesses} --- has offered a foundation for
hotels as they've sought to create their own. Many of the new cleaning
plans include a consultancy with a leading medical organization,
products and technologies from Ecolab (a major hygiene and safety
company), some element of social distancing, increased disinfection of
guest rooms and public spaces, and a commitment to procure and test new
technologies like robots and ultraviolet light.

Guests will immediately notice the disappearance of the breakfast
buffet, the decluttering of nonessential room items like throw pillows,
and the wearing of masks and other personal protective equipment by
staff.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/08/travel/08-TRAVEL-HYGIENE-PRINT/30travel-clean-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{more-cleaning-more-jobs}{%
\subsection{More cleaning, more jobs?}\label{more-cleaning-more-jobs}}

Mr. Shore said the new batch of nomenclature from hotel marketing teams
doesn't suggest a higher degree of cleanliness or a significant
departure from the pre-Covid era. But these measures, if implemented
fully, will substantially alter how hotels operate.

``This is completely going to change the role and realm of
housekeeping,'' Dr. Bagnera said. ``With occupancy rates so low, now is
the perfect opportunity for hotel general managers to work with their
teams and make sure they're mapping out how they're going to clean the
rooms, how they're going to be efficient and how they're going to keep
their employees safe.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T11:04:36.368Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4a77847f}{As
  senators return to Washington, an impasse over a virus relief package
  looms.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In recent years, many housekeeping tasks were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/26/business/hotel-housekeepers.html}{streamlined}
or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/27/travel/skipping-hotel-housekeeping-perks.html}{replaced}.
Complex new cleaning protocols could revitalize those jobs, and perhaps
add new ones, particularly as occupancy levels rebound.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/06/travel/coronavirus-travel-questions.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/06/multimedia/06FOT-coverairplanes/06FOT-coverairplanes-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{the-future-of-travel}{%
\subsection{The Future of Travel}\label{the-future-of-travel}}

Perhaps no industry has been as hard hit by the pandemic as tourism. As
restrictions on companies and travelers ease, what will the new world
look like?

For \href{https://unitehere.org/}{Unite Here}, a hospitality workers'
union with 300,000 members in North America, the new guidelines raise
questions about what will happen when hotel workers clock back in. More
than 95 percent of its union members are not working as a result of the
pandemic.

``These new measures --- and the reality that they must be adhered to
well into the future --- point to a need for more workers across the
board,'' said D. Taylor, Unite Here's international president.

Best Western predicts that its ``We Care Clean'' program --- which
includes more disinfection of touchpoints like faucets and door handles
--- will increase the time it takes to clean each room by 50
percent.Industrywide, the use of new disinfectants --- which must sit on
a surface for a certain amount of time in order to be effective --- will
force an adjustment to the flow in which rooms are serviced.

\hypertarget{playbooks-not-strict-rules}{%
\subsection{Playbooks, not strict
rules}\label{playbooks-not-strict-rules}}

Whereas Wynn's lengthy memo gets into the weeds about what will happen
at one stand-alone casino-resort --- ``Addition of inserts into golf
hole cups to allow easy removal of balls'' --- companies with thousands
of hotels can't offer that level of detail. Rather, their new cleaning
guidelines are meant as overarching navigational tools. They're
guidelines and best practices, not strict directives.

``CleanStay'' will begin rolling out to all Hilton brands worldwide in
June. Marriott is taking a phased approach to its rollout over the next
30 to 90 days, and to all 30 brands, including The Ritz-Carlton.

But most big chains do not usually own, and often don't operate, the
hotels bearing their names, meaning it's up to individual franchise
owners to fund supplies, training and marketing.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

That makes oversight a challenge. Best Western will have a system of
self-auditing for its 2,200 North American hotels; general managers will
be asked to keep a ``We Care Clean'' checklist on file. Wyndham will
kick-start ``Count on Us'' by financing and shipping the first round of
masks, hand sanitizer and disinfectant wipes to more than 6,000 hotels
and allow them to defer repayment until September. All of Hyatt's
managed and franchised hotels --- more than 900 globally --- will
appoint ``Hygiene Managers.''

\hypertarget{hygiene-gets-personal}{%
\subsection{Hygiene gets personal}\label{hygiene-gets-personal}}

Boutique hotels could face additional hurdles as they seek to marry
cleanliness with individual expression.

\href{https://www.destinationhotels.com/hotels-and-resorts/quirk-hotel-charlottesville}{Quirk
Hotel, Charlottesville,} in Virginia, opened in early March only to
temporarily close less than two weeks later. As it preps for a June
reopening, its leadership is considering ways to adhere to Hyatt's
global guidelines (Quirk is part of Destination Hotels, a Hyatt brand)
without losing the identity suggested by the hotel's name. Employees
will wear light-pink masks --- a nod to the hotel's logo and lobby décor
--- custom tailored by a local garment maker; no-touch restaurant menus
will double as clever, artistic table centerpieces.

``We are doing everything possible to go beyond simply complying with
the new requirements from our parent brand, Hyatt, and the governing
state of Virginia to ensure the heart and soul of our property stays
intact,'' said Matthew Brink, the hotel's general manager.

Personal touches go even further at fully independent hotels. At
\href{https://www.oldedwardshospitality.com/old-edwards-inn-spa}{Old
Edwards Inn \& Spa} and
\href{https://www.oldedwardshospitality.com/half-mile-farm}{Half-Mile
Farm,} sister luxury hotels in Highlands, N.C., staff members are
undergoing eye-expression training to decipher the needs and emotions of
guests wearing face masks. The
\href{https://theinnatlittlewashington.com/}{Inn at Little Washington,}
in Virginia, is using life-size mannequins to fill out the
state-mandated socially distanced seating at its Michelin-starred
restaurant. \href{https://www.oceanhouseri.com/}{Ocean House}, on the
Rhode Island coast, is supplanting its nightly happy hour at the bar
with a canape-and-cocktail cart that pushes from room to room.

Image

``We are doing everything possible to go beyond simply complying with
the new requirements from our parent brand, Hyatt, and the governing
state of Virginia to ensure the heart and soul of our property stays
intact,'' said Matthew Brink, the general manager of Quirk Hotel,
Charlottesville.Credit...Betty Clicker

\hypertarget{the-new-responsibilities-of-guests}{%
\subsection{The New Responsibilities of
Guests}\label{the-new-responsibilities-of-guests}}

These visual cues will be paramount as hotels big and small rebuild
consumer confidence.
\href{https://www.mmgyintel.com/travel-intentions-pulse-survey-tips-impact-covid-19}{Data}
from the U.S. Travel Association and MMGY Travel Intelligence suggests
that Americans right now consider
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/travel/hotels-versus-airbnb-pandemic.html}{vacation
rentals safer than hotels}. In a recent survey of nearly 4,600
respondents, the management consulting firm
\href{http://oliverwyman.com/}{Oliver Wyman} found that improved health
and cleaning is the chief factor impacting the decision to stay at a
hotel. That's why most of the new guidelines encourage public-facing
elements like social-distancing signage, seals identifying that a room
has been disinfected, Plexiglas partitions and more.

``Guests will be interested to know how their room is cleaned, how often
it's cleaned and who is responsible for maintaining a safe environment
within the hotel,'' said Tim Chatfield, the founder and chief executive
of \href{https://www.jitjatjo.com/}{Jitjatjo,} an online hospitality
industry platform.

But in order for any of these new programs to work, industry experts and
hospitality worker activists believe that health and hygiene must become
give-and-take.

``Hotels are asking guests to wear masks, distance themselves, wash
their hands and use sanitizer or wipes before going into the elevator,''
Dr. Bagnera said. ``It's like: `Come in and we'll take care of you at a
hundred percent --- but you've got to participate in the new process as
well.'''

\textbf{THE WORLD IS REOPENING. LET'S GO, SAFELY.} \emph{Follow New York
Times Travel on}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimestravel}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimestravel/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{.
And}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch?action=click\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{sign
up for our}} **
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/traveldispatch}{\emph{Travel
Dispatch newsletter}}\emph{: Each week you'll receive tips on traveling
smarter, stories on hot destinations and access to photos from all over
the world.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
