Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Ratings on the Virus
Are Sagging. Why Isn't Biden Surging?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3cBFvUi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Poll Watch

\hypertarget{trumps-ratings-on-the-virus-are-sagging-why-isnt-biden-surging}{%
\section{Trump's Ratings on the Virus Are Sagging. Why Isn't Biden
Surging?}\label{trumps-ratings-on-the-virus-are-sagging-why-isnt-biden-surging}}

Joe Biden may have a lead in most polls, but it's not anywhere close to
a comfortable one.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/15/us/politics/15pollwatch-01/merlin_172501164_3e0492fe-aa1a-4e07-b10e-ad82245570c4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/giovanni-russonello}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-giovanni-russonello/author-giovanni-russonello-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/giovanni-russonello}{Giovanni
Russonello}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 15, 2020Updated July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Welcome to}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/poll-watch}{\emph{Poll
Watch}}\emph{, our weekly look at}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{\emph{polling
data}} \emph{and survey research on the candidates, voters and issues
that will shape the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{\emph{2020
election}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

It's been a little over a month since Joseph R. Biden Jr. became the
presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, and what a month it's been.

Or rather, what a month it \emph{hasn't} been.

The race between Mr. Biden and President Trump ought to be basically
underway by now, but the horses seem unsure of how to get out of the
stable, particularly in the case of Mr. Biden, who has been~sheltering
in place at home since March.

While he has held consistent leads in most national and swing-state
polls, they have not been altogether comfortable ones. And even as the
public's faith in Mr. Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/other/public_approval_of_president_trumps_handling_of_the_coronavirus-7088.html}{steadily
erodes}, Mr. Biden has struggled to establish a narrative that resonates
with persuadable voters or motivates those on the left.

A
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/13/politics/cnn-poll-2020/index.html}{CNN
poll} released on Wednesday found Mr. Biden leading the president by
five percentage points nationwide, but trailing by seven points among
voters in crucial battleground states. In that poll --- conducted a week
after Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/us/politics/joe-biden-tara-reade-morning-joe.html}{publicly
denied allegations of sexual assault}, to which he had initially
hesitated to respond --- the former vice president's support among
female voters and college graduates was badly diminished from recent
months.

Still, most swing-state polls have shown Mr. Biden in the lead, and Mr.
Trump's persistently low approval rating bodes poorly.

``You have a president who hasn't had a day with an approval rating over
50 percent,'' said Joel Benenson, a veteran Democratic pollster,
pointing to
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/203207/trump-job-approval-weekly.aspx}{Gallup
figures}. ``So you're looking at a campaign that's going to be a
referendum on Donald Trump, and so far Trump is losing.''

But for some Democrats, the results of the CNN poll again raised the
specter that Mr. Biden could win the popular vote but lose the Electoral
College, as Hillary Clinton and Al Gore both did.

\hypertarget{the-enthusiasm-gap}{%
\subsection{The enthusiasm gap}\label{the-enthusiasm-gap}}

Other recent surveys have been somewhat kinder to Mr. Biden than the CNN
poll. A
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/documents/monmouthpoll_us_050620.pdf/}{Monmouth
University survey} conducted earlier this month found him leading Mr.
Trump by nine points nationwide, and largely holding onto his margins
among women and well-educated voters. In a
\href{https://law.marquette.edu/poll/2020/05/12/new-marquette-law-school-poll-finds-reduced-but-majority-support-for-covid-19-restrictions-while-partisan-divisions-increase/}{Marquette
University Law School poll} of Wisconsin voters released this week, Mr.
Biden's three-point edge over Mr. Trump was unchanged since March.

But even in that Monmouth poll there were signs that his virtual
campaign has yet to instill passion in crucial parts of his coalition.
Among liberal voters, 33 percent said they were less enthusiastic than
usual about voting in this year's election. Voter enthusiasm ran higher
among conservatives; just 12 percent of those voters said they were less
enthusiastic than in previous years.

The CNN poll painted a similar picture, but more starkly: Four in five
Republican voters said they were quite enthusiastic about voting this
year; just 56 percent of Democratic voters said the same.

Of course, it is still early to draw definitive conclusions from these
numbers: Mr. Trump has been in office for over three years, and he
continues to address the public in news conferences multiple times a
week, while Mr. Biden's general-election campaign has hardly gotten off
the ground. That is precisely what
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/us/politics/joe-biden-donald-trump-2020.html}{worries
some Democratic observers}.

\hypertarget{the-pandemic-problem}{%
\subsection{The pandemic problem}\label{the-pandemic-problem}}

In the five weeks since Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/us/politics/bernie-sanders-drops-out.html}{became
the lone remaining Democratic presidential candidate}, all but sealing
his nomination, Americans' faith in Mr. Trump's handling of the
coronavirus has steadily sunk. In this week's CNN poll, Americans
\href{https://cdn.cnn.com/cnn/2020/images/05/12/rel5a.-.coronavirus.pdf}{disapproved
of his pandemic response} by a 13-point margin.

But Mr. Biden has largely stayed outside the spotlight in recent weeks
--- at the very moment when he might otherwise be expected to grab
headlines with attacks on Mr. Trump's leadership, and examples of how he
would confront the pandemic.

In the CNN poll, voters were just six points more likely to say Mr.
Biden would do a better job than Mr. Trump at responding to the virus
outbreak. A month ago, the difference was nine points in Mr. Biden's
favor.

Asked about the economy, voters told CNN that Mr. Trump was their
preferred steward by a margin of 12 points. A month ago, Mr. Trump led
in this regard by just four points.

\hypertarget{the-tara-reade-allegation}{%
\subsection{The Tara Reade allegation}\label{the-tara-reade-allegation}}

In recent weeks Mr. Biden has been thrown off balance by the allegation
of sexual assault lodged against him by Tara Reade, who briefly worked
in his Senate office in the early 1990s.

In the Monmouth poll, 46 percent of Democratic voters said either that
Ms. Reade's accusation was probably true or that they weren't sure.
Among independent voters, nearly four in five selected one of those
options; just 22 percent of independents said they didn't believe the
allegations.

The CNN poll found that Mr. Biden's net favorability rating among all
Americans had sunk by five points since March --- a possible consequence
of the Reade accusation, since Mr. Biden has not received much negative
coverage on other fronts over the past few weeks. Looking only at
registered voters, the drop in his favorability was more severe: to
minus 5, from plus 3 in the March CNN poll. That dip was about even
across women and men. (Monmouth also found positive views of Mr. Biden
dropping slightly since March, though to a lesser degree.)

But in terms of actual voting preference, Mr. Biden appeared to have
taken a particular hit among women and white college graduates,
according to CNN. In head-to-head matchups with Mr. Trump, his lead
shrank by half among women since last month --- and even more among
voters with a college degree. He now leads the president by 14 points
among women, and by just four points among white college grads,
according to the CNN poll.

\hypertarget{the-shrinking-middle}{%
\subsection{The shrinking middle}\label{the-shrinking-middle}}

Mr. Trump's favorability rating has remained underwater in almost every
major poll since the beginning of his presidency. It's a vulnerability
that Mr. Biden will be eager to exploit, even as he struggles to
maintain a positive image of his own.

The recent Monmouth poll had signs of hope for Mr. Biden in this regard:
Among voters who expressed unfavorable views of both him and Mr. Trump,
Mr. Biden led the president by a significant margin. That would
represent a reversal from 2016, when Mr. Trump beat Mrs. Clinton among
voters with negative views of both candidates.

The share of voters expressing negative views of both candidates is much
smaller this year than it was in 2016. Now more than ever, there are
strong and stable bases of support on either political side: In the CNN
poll, 95 percent of Democratic voters said they would support Mr. Biden,
and the same share of Republicans said they would back Mr. Trump.

Even those individuals who identify as political independents tend to
lean strongly toward one party or the other --- and to hold adamant
feelings about Mr. Trump's leadership --- meaning that there are
vanishingly few voters who truly ride in the middle lane of American
politics.

Across most general-election polls this year, the pool of voters saying
they are undecided looks
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/upshot/polls-2020-trump-biden.html?campaign_id=29\&emc=edit_up_20200514\&instance_id=18471\&nl=the-upshot\&regi_id=73378695\&segment_id=27795\&te=1\&user_id=a675e15731785ae5715f1c3b5549c62e}{much
smaller than it was in 2016}.

Still, the Monmouth poll found that Mr. Biden held a 16-point margin in
the counties where Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump ran nearest to even in
2016, a sign that he might have an advantage among the small slice of
the electorate that is genuinely persuadable. In Monmouth's poll just
before the 2016 election, Mrs. Clinton
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/documents/monmouthpoll_us_110716.pdf/}{led
by about half that much} among voters in similarly competitive counties.

``Those counties that are competitive are the ones where voters are much
more likely to change their vote from one election to the next,''
Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, said in an interview. ``How
they behave from election to election tells us a lot about what's
important to voters.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
