Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Rex Tillerson, Exxon C.E.O.,
Chosen as Secretary of State

\url{https://nyti.ms/2gATO2B}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rex-tillerson-exxon-ceo-chosen-as-secretary-of-state}{%
\section{Rex Tillerson, Exxon C.E.O., Chosen as Secretary of
State}\label{rex-tillerson-exxon-ceo-chosen-as-secretary-of-state}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/13/us/13tillerson/14tillerson-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}
and \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 12, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President-elect Donald J. Trump on Tuesday officially
selected Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, to be his
secretary of state. In saying he will nominate Mr. Tillerson, the
president-elect is dismissing bipartisan concerns that the
globe-trotting leader of an energy giant has a too-cozy relationship
with Vladimir V. Putin, the president of Russia.

A statement from Mr. Trump's transition office early Tuesday brought to
an end his public and chaotic deliberations over the nation's top
diplomat --- a process that at times veered from rewarding Rudolph W.
Giuliani, one of his most loyal supporters, to musing about whether Mitt
Romney, one of his most outspoken critics, might be forgiven.

Instead, Mr. Trump has decided to risk what looks to be a bruising
confirmation fight in the Senate.

In the past several days, Republican and Democratic lawmakers had warned
that Mr. Tillerson would face intense scrutiny over his two-decade
relationship with Russia, which awarded him its Order of Friendship in
2013, and with Mr. Putin.

The hearings will also put a focus on Exxon Mobil's business dealings
with Moscow. The company has billions of dollars in oil contracts that
can go forward only if the United States lifts sanctions against Russia,
and Mr. Tillerson's stake in Russia's energy industry could create a
very blurry line between his interests as an oilman and his role as
America's leading diplomat.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump's Cabinet Is Complete. Here's the Full
List.}\label{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}}

A list of appointees and nominees for top posts in the new
administration.

Mr. Tillerson has been publicly skeptical about the sanctions, which
have halted some of Exxon Mobil's biggest projects in Russia, including
an agreement with the state oil company to explore and pump in Siberia
that could be worth tens of billions of dollars.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said on Saturday that Mr.
Tillerson's connections to Mr. Putin were ``a matter of concern to me''
and promised to examine them closely if he were nominated.

``Vladimir Putin is a thug, bully and a murderer, and anybody else who
describes him as anything else is lying,'' Mr. McCain said on Fox News.

Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/24/us/politics/donald-trump-mitt-romney-rudy-giuliani-state.html}{has
fanned speculation} about his choice for secretary of state for weeks.
In the end, he discarded not only Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Romney, but also
an endlessly changing list that at times included Senator Bob Corker,
Republican of Tennessee; David H. Petraeus, the former Army general and
C.I.A. director; and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former Utah governor and
presidential candidate in 2012.

Mr. Romney, Mr. Petraeus and Mr. Corker, the three leading runners-up,
all received calls late Monday informing them of Mr. Trump's decision,
according to people familiar with the president-elect's final choice.

He settled on Mr. Tillerson, a deal maker who has spent the past four
decades at Exxon, much of it in search of oil and gas agreements in
troubled parts of the world. A native of Wichita Falls, Tex., who speaks
with a strong Texas twang, Mr. Tillerson, 64, runs a company with
operations in about 50 countries, and has cut deals to expand business
in Venezuela, Qatar, Kurdistan and elsewhere.

If confirmed as secretary of state, Mr. Tillerson would face a new
challenge: nurturing alliances around the world that are built less on
deals and more on diplomacy.

That could prove to be a special test when it comes to Russia, where Mr.
Tillerson has fought for years to strengthen connections through
business negotiations worth billions of dollars. Under his leadership,
Exxon has entered into joint ventures with Rosneft, a Russian-backed oil
company, and donated to the country's health and social programs.

In his new role, Mr. Tillerson would have to manage the difficult
relationship between the United States and Mr. Putin's Russia, including
the economic sanctions imposed after Moscow intervened in Ukraine and
occupied Crimea. Last month, President Obama and European leaders agreed
to keep sanctions in place until Mr. Putin agrees to a cease-fire and to
the withdrawal of heavy weapons from front lines in eastern Ukraine.

Other Republicans who have challenged Mr. Tillerson's potential
selection include Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who expressed concern
in a Twitter post on Monday about his relationship with Mr. Putin.

Mr. Trump favored Mr. Giuliani, the former New York mayor, initially,
but quickly grew weary of his penchant for drawing outsize media
attention. Mr. Trump was also troubled by reports of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/16/us/politics/donald-trump-cabinet-rudy-giuliani.html}{Mr.
Giuliani's business entanglements} overseas. And some of the
president-elect's closest advisers, including his son-in-law, Jared
Kushner, saw Mr. Giuliani as a poor fit for the job.

That led to interest in Mr. Romney, who had called Mr. Trump a ``fraud''
and a ``phony'' during the campaign. Mr. Romney had also highlighted
Russia as a danger to United States interests during the 2012 race.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/05/us/politics/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/02/us/politics/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires-1480717606838/trump-cabinet-insiders-outsiders-millionaires-1480717606838-thumbLarge-v2.png}

\hypertarget{outsiders-insiders-and-multimillionaires-in-trumps-cabinet}{%
\subsection{Outsiders, Insiders and Multimillionaires in Trump's
Cabinet}\label{outsiders-insiders-and-multimillionaires-in-trumps-cabinet}}

President-elect Donald J. Trump's cabinet and top staff are shaping up
to be a mix of wealthy Washington outsiders, Republican insiders and
former military officers who have been critical of the Obama
administration.

Mr. Trump and Mr. Romney
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/20/us/politics/donald-trump-mitt-romney-secretary-state.html}{made
peace}, meeting twice and speaking periodically by phone. But some of
Mr. Trump's advisers, including his last campaign manager, Kellyanne
Conway, warned publicly in a series of television interviews that some
of his supporters would quickly drift away if Mr. Romney were chosen for
the job.

Mr. Tillerson
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/09/us/politics/rex-tillerson-secretary-of-state-exxon-donald-trump.html}{emerged
as a contender} on the strong recommendations of James A. Baker III, the
secretary of state under President George Bush, and Robert M. Gates, the
former defense secretary, according to a person briefed on the process.

Mr. Kushner and Mr. Trump's chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, argued
strongly for Mr. Tillerson, and the president-elect was intrigued.

Mr. Trump met with Mr. Tillerson for more than two hours on Saturday at
Trump Tower in Manhattan. To his aides, Mr. Trump described Mr.
Tillerson as in a different ``league'' than his other options.

Mr. Romney acknowledged late Monday night in
\href{https://www.facebook.com/mittromney/posts/10153988122401121}{a
Facebook post} that he had been passed over, writing, ``It was an honor
to have been considered for Secretary of State of our great country.''

``My discussions with President-elect Trump have been both enjoyable and
enlightening,'' Mr. Romney wrote.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
