Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}In the Fight to Treat
Coronavirus, Your Lungs Are a Battlefield

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YFi5cK}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2773010-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2773011-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2773012-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2773013-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2773014-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=a2775720-e38f-11ea-a918-111100de9fdb}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{In the Fight to Treat Coronavirus, Your Lungs Are a
Battlefield}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{in-the-fight-to-treat-coronavirus-your-lungs-are-a-battlefield}{%
\section{In the Fight to Treat Coronavirus, Your Lungs Are a
Battlefield}\label{in-the-fight-to-treat-coronavirus-your-lungs-are-a-battlefield}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mika-grondahl}{Mika
Gr√∂ndahl},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-jacobs}{Andrew
Jacobs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/larry-buchanan}{Larry
Buchanan}May 8, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{128}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{healthy-air-sac-infected-air-sac}{%
\paragraph{Healthy air sac Infected air
sac}\label{healthy-air-sac-infected-air-sac}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/04/04/ventilator-project/72bbf278be4c36a9136ef841859cdf8cfe7c29bb/top.gif}

Ventilators have become the single most important piece of medical
equipment for critically ill coronavirus patients whose damaged lungs
prevent them from getting enough oxygen to vital organs. The machines
work by forcing air deep into the lungs, dislodging the fluid and
accumulated pus that interfere with the exchange of oxygen, a process
orchestrated by tiny air sacs known as alveoli.

\hypertarget{its-still-not-clear-how-lungs-are-affected-by-covid-19}{%
\subsection{It's still not clear how lungs are affected by
Covid-19.}\label{its-still-not-clear-how-lungs-are-affected-by-covid-19}}

Lungs are complex organs that deliver oxygen to the bloodstream and keep
organs functioning.

Lungs

Lungs

Lungs

Human lungs are spongy vessels made up of millions of microscopic,
balloon-shaped air sacs called alveoli, the workhorse of the respiratory
system where the exchange of gases takes place.

Trachea

Main bronchi

Alveoli

A single alveolus, no bigger than the width of a human hair, is ringed
by a mesh of tiny capillaries that transport oxygen to the bloodstream.

One alveolus

Trachea

Main

bronchi

Alveoli

A single alveolus, no bigger than the width of a human hair, is ringed
by a mesh of tiny capillaries that transport oxygen to the bloodstream.

One alveolus

Trachea

Main

bronchi

Alveoli

One alveolus

A single alveolus, no bigger than the width of a human hair, is ringed
by a mesh of tiny capillaries that transport oxygen to the bloodstream.

Healthy

In healthy lungs, an alveolus allows oxygen to reach the bloodstream and
expels carbon dioxide that is then exhaled.

Air

Blood

vessel

Air sac

Oxygen

enters blood

Carbon dioxide

leaves blood

Very thin,

permeable membrane

Infected

Air

Although experts are still trying to understand how Covid-19 attacks the
lungs, the air sacs in many patients become inflamed and fill with
fluid, hampering the body's ability to take in oxygen and remove carbon
dioxide.

Inflammation

Blood clots

may limit

the flow

Fluid

Inflamed,

thickened membrane

Healthy

Air

In healthy lungs, an alveolus allows oxygen to reach the bloodstream and
expels carbon dioxide that is then exhaled.

Blood

vessel

Air sac

Oxygen

enters blood

Carbon dioxide

leaves blood

Very thin,

permeable membrane

Infected

Air

Although experts are still trying to understand how Covid-19 attacks the
lungs, the air sacs in many patients become inflamed and fill with
fluid, hampering the body's ability to take in oxygen and remove carbon
dioxide.

Inflammation

Blood clots

may limit

the flow

Fluid

Inflamed,

thickened membrane

Healthy

Air

Blood

vessel

Air sac

Oxygen

enters blood

Carbon dioxide

leaves blood

Very thin,

permeable membrane

In healthy lungs, an alveolus allows oxygen to reach the bloodstream and
expels carbon dioxide that is then exhaled.

Infected

Air

Blood clots may limit the flow

Inflammation

Fluid

Inflamed,

thickened membrane

Although experts are still trying to understand how Covid-19 attacks the
lungs, the air sacs in many patients become inflamed and fill with
fluid, hampering the body's ability to take in oxygen and remove carbon
dioxide.

\hypertarget{a-ventilator-can-help-patients-get-the-oxygen-they-need-to-stay-alive-}{%
\subsection{A ventilator can help patients get the oxygen they need to
stay alive
\ldots{}}\label{a-ventilator-can-help-patients-get-the-oxygen-they-need-to-stay-alive-}}

Ventilators are not a cure for Covid-19 patients, but mechanical
breathing assistance can keep patients alive while they battle the
infection.

Ventilator

Ventilator

Critical care ventilators are more than just air pumps. They are finely
tuned machines with software that must be constantly adjusted by skilled
medical workers to ensure that patients receive the right combination of
oxygen level, pressure, breath volume and breathing rate.

Oxygen concentrator

Rotary valve

Compressor

User interface

Blower

Electronics

Oxygen sensors

Oxygen concentrator

Compressor

User interface

Blower

Rotary valve

Electronics

Oxygen sensors

Oxygen

concentrator

Blower

Compressor

User

interface

Electronics

Oxygen

sensors

\hypertarget{-but-ventilating-a-patient-is-far-from-a-guaranteed-fix}{%
\subsection{\ldots{} but ventilating a patient is far from a guaranteed
fix.}\label{-but-ventilating-a-patient-is-far-from-a-guaranteed-fix}}

Non-coronavirus patients on ventilators have about a 50 percent survival
rate. The mortality rate for coronavirus patients on ventilators is not
yet clear --- in part because, with no proven method of treatment for
the virus, coronavirus patients are often being kept on these machines
for weeks in order to keep them breathing long enough to give their
lungs a chance to heal.

Exhaled air is filtered for viral particles

Air supplied to the patient

contains 21-100\% oxygen

Lungs

Endotracheal tube

Air supplied to the patient

contains 21-100\% oxygen

Exhaled air

is filtered

for viral particles

Endotracheal tube

Lungs

Intubation is fraught. Patients must be heavily sedated to allow doctors
to insert a breathing tube into the lungs --- and to prevent them from
waking up and pulling out the tubes. Because too much air pressure can
damage the lungs, intubated patients must be constantly monitored.

Assisted breathing

Controlled breathing

Patient initiates a breath

Machine delivers a breath

Machine delivers a scheduled breath

+

Pressure

--

Patient exhales

Positive pressure is maintained to keep airways open

Assisted breathing

Controlled breathing

Patient initiates

a breath

Machine

delivers a breath

Machine delivers

a scheduled breath

+

Pressure

--

Positive pressure is maintained to keep airways open

Patient exhales

Assisted breathing

Patient initiates

a breath

Machine

delivers a breath

+

Pressure

--

Patient exhales

Controlled breathing

Machine delivers a scheduled breath

+

--

Positive pressure is

maintained to keep

airways open

\hypertarget{health-care-providers-are-exploring-new-techniques-}{%
\subsection{Health care providers are exploring new techniques
...}\label{health-care-providers-are-exploring-new-techniques-}}

Fears of a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/08/nyregion/ventilators-fema-coronavirus-cuomo.html}{ventilator
shortage in New York} and the poor prognosis for intubated patients have
helped spur
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/health/ventilators-coronavirus.html}{innovations
for sustaining patients} without relying on critical care ventilators.

Health care providers have embraced a maneuver that has long been used
for ventilated patients --- periodically turning them on their stomach
to increase lung capacity. Proning, as it's called, opens up areas of
the lungs that are normally compressed by the weight of the heart when
lying on one's back. Doctors are currently studying whether using
proning for some patients in respiratory distress can allow them to
recover without being placed on ventilators.

Face-up

Prone

Heart

Lungs

Heart

Lungs

Lungs

Heart

Face-up

Heart

Heart

Lungs

Lungs

Prone

Lungs

Heart

Heart

Face-up

Heart

Heart

Lungs

Lungs

Prone

Lungs

Heart

Heart

Flipping over patients in acute respiratory distress, doctors have
discovered, can markedly increase oxygenation. The process can be
labor-intensive, however, requiring staff to turn over patients several
times a day.

\hypertarget{-and-less-expensive-treatment-alternatives}{%
\subsection{... and less expensive treatment
alternatives.}\label{-and-less-expensive-treatment-alternatives}}

Medical workers have increasingly turned to CPAP and BiPAP machines,
inexpensive air pumps used by millions of Americans with sleep apnea,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other breathing disorders.
Hospitals have been repurposing unused machines and using them both with
or without intubation to send pressurized air into the lungs of
coronavirus patients.

CPAP machine

Soft and transparent plastic helmet

holds positive pressure inside

Room oxygen

supply option

Soft collar

seals helmet at the neck

Exhaust valve

and filter

CPAP machine

Plastic helmet

holds positive

pressure inside

Room oxygen

supply option

Collar

seals the helmet

Exhaust

filter

To reduce the risk of infection for hospital workers, doctors have also
been fitting patients with jury-rigged helmets that deliver oxygen via
CPAP machines while filtering out exhaled viral particles. The helmets
were pioneered by Italian doctors forced to improvise because of a
shortage of intensive care ventilators.

Sources: Ventec Life Systems; Dr. John D'Angelo, Trinitas Regional
Medical Center; Dr. Greg Martin, Emory University School of Medicine;
Dr. Susan R. Wilcox, Massachusetts General Hospital

Additional work by Julie Walton Shaver.

Read 128 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
