Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pence, a Loyalist Tapped for
Coronavirus Effort, Adds to Trump's Mixed Messages

\url{https://nyti.ms/39wsAlc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e36e10-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e39520-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e39521-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e39522-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e39523-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=52e3bc30-e38a-11ea-85cc-bf105b368d22}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pence-a-loyalist-tapped-for-coronavirus-effort-adds-to-trumps-mixed-messages}{%
\section{Pence, a Loyalist Tapped for Coronavirus Effort, Adds to
Trump's Mixed
Messages}\label{pence-a-loyalist-tapped-for-coronavirus-effort-adds-to-trumps-mixed-messages}}

In wresting control of the administration's haphazard response to the
virus, Mike Pence has taken on a familiar role as the president's
political janitor.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/06/us/politics/06dc-pence1/merlin_170082918_a4cba9df-3af9-4048-9627-f239b5de9b7d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-katie-rogers/author-katie-rogers-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{Katie
Rogers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Vice President Mike Pence has long been a one-man
political cleanup crew for President Trump. From his day trip last fall
to Turkey to negotiate a cease-fire in northern Syria to his takeover of
the chaotic presidential transition, Mr. Pence is used to being diverted
from his reliably anodyne schedule.

Now he has moved into one of the biggest political janitor jobs of all
time.

Mr. Trump, who in recent weeks
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/22/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-cruise-ship.html}{was
infuriated by early decision}s to allow coronavirus patients into the
United States and irritated by public health officials offering their
assessments to the public, has turned to Mr. Pence, an unfailing
loyalist, to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/27/us/politics/us-coronavirus-pence.html}{tamp
down on messaging efforts} and wrangle competing offices within the
White House.

``Having the vice president gives me the biggest stick one could have in
the government on this whole-of-government approach,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-vice-president-pence-members-coronavirus-task-force-press-conference/}{proclaimed}
last week when he appointed Mr. Pence to lead the administration's
coronavirus task force.

He did not mention that one of Mr. Pence's jobs is to clean up after a
font of misinformation, the president himself, who has said he has a
``hunch'' that the virus is not as lethal as experts say and that
everything will be better by April.

Mr. Pence, who maintains the emotive exterior of a block of marble, is a
new daily fixture in the White House briefing room, where he offers 5
p.m. updates on the crisis and is disciplined with his words --- his
nickname on the 2016 Trump campaign was ``On Message Mike.'' But Mr.
Pence has already had to clean up some messes of his own.

Early in the week Mr. Pence declared that ``any American could be
tested'' for the virus, but by Thursday had to tell reporters that ``we
don't have enough tests today to meet what we anticipate will be the
demand going forward.''

On Wednesday, Mr. Pence said several times that the Department of Health
and Human Services had ensured that insurance companies, as well as
Medicare and Medicaid, would all provide coverage for coronavirus tests,
by designating the lab test an ``Essential Health Benefit.'' But his
assertion substantially misrepresented the reach of that legal
authority, which was established under the Affordable Care Act, and
ignored the fact that Republicans in Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/03/23/upshot/late-gop-proposal-could-mean-plans-that-cover-aromatherapy-but-not-chemotherapy.html}{had
specifically targeted} that provision for removal in 2017.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

His performance led critics to say that the coronavirus is not a
political or public relations battle but a public health crisis that is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/28/us/politics/cpac-coronavirus.html}{immune
to spin}.

``If you want to build public trust in an emergency, people have to
believe you're telling the truth,'' said Gregg Gonsalves, an
epidemiologist at the Yale School of Public Health. ``You get this sad
feeling like they're doing political damage control rather than thinking
about how to handle this.''

Still, the vice president has been credited with a demeanor more
dignified than the ramblings and political attacks that often come from
Mr. Trump when he talks publicly about the virus. (On Friday during a
trip to the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, Mr. Trump called
Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington a ``snake.'') White House aides say Mr.
Pence has instilled a measure of order in task force meetings, at least
one of which he opened with a prayer. He has also been traveling.

On Thursday, Mr. Pence flew to Minnesota to meet with medical equipment
manufacturers before flying to Washington State, which has reported 84
cases and 14 deaths, where he bumped elbows with the governor. The
president, speaking at a Fox News forum in Pennsylvania on Thursday
night, praised Mr. Pence for working ``20 hours a day or more.''

The president also tried to tamp down pervasive speculation in
Washington that he will remove Mr. Pence from the 2020 ticket should he
mishandle the virus effort.

``I get along great with the vice president and I keep hearing that I'm
replacing him but he's doing a phenomenal job,'' Mr. Trump said at the
forum. ``He's a great guy and a loyal guy and he works so hard.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/06/us/politics/06dc-pence2/merlin_170087673_c23c7e06-091f-4fb4-aa70-041eb43fd6a1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As Marc Short, Mr. Pence's chief of staff, put it: ``He is uniquely
qualified for this because of his close relationship to the president.
Basically there's no confusion that the president's in charge.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/03/us/politics/trump-us-coronavirus.html}{Mr.
Pence, the former governor of Indiana, has no public health} expertise,
and is remembered in his home state for slow-walking a decision to
approve the distribution of clean needles for intravenous drug users,
which he initially opposed on moral grounds. His decision is cited as a
main reason that an H.I.V. crisis in a rural community ballooned to
epidemic proportions.

``When it comes to a public health emergency, I would question whether
or not he has the capacity to really listen to the experts in making
informed decisions rather than grappling with his own personal
beliefs,'' said Dr. Carrie Lawrence, an assistant research scientist at
the Indiana University School of Public Health-Bloomington.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Pence's allies say that his appearances in the White House briefing
room show that he is listening to public health experts, and point to
how he steps back and relies on their knowledge when he doesn't know the
answer. ``Get used to this,'' he told reporters at a briefing on
Tuesday, as he gestured for Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, to take the
podium.

Mr. Pence's official advice echoes a Twitter bulletin
\href{https://twitter.com/BarackObama/status/1235246706817630208}{issued
by President Barack Obama}, the gist of which is: Wash hands, leave
masks for health care workers and listen to experts.

Image

Mr. Pence was in the Capitol earlier this week to brief lawmakers on the
coronavirus response.Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times

Mr. Pence has also been to Capitol Hill with his team to brief
lawmakers, who praise the time he has spent with them but not always the
information provided.

``They answered a lot of questions,'' Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of
New York and the minority leader, said. ``The problem is they didn't
have as many answers as we needed.''

Some state officials say they are appreciative of Mr. Pence's efforts.
Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, a Democrat, said that she had been surprised
by the amount of attention Mr. Pence had given her state, which has
reported three coronavirus cases, and the administration's decision to
convene governors from across the country to discuss their needs.

``I would put them as extremely responsive right now,'' she said.
``Obviously I'm aware of his history around science but you know, he's a
former governor. He knows what it's like to be on the front lines.''

Abby Goodnough and Margot Sanger-Katz contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
