Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Iowa, Amy Klobuchar Gets
a Second Look After Debate

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P5yEK0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-iowa-amy-klobuchar-gets-a-second-look-after-debate}{%
\section{In Iowa, Amy Klobuchar Gets a Second Look After
Debate}\label{in-iowa-amy-klobuchar-gets-a-second-look-after-debate}}

Mired in the polling doldrums, the Minnesota senator drew crowds and new
donors after attacking Elizabeth Warren for a ``pipe dream.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/20/us/politics/00klobuchar-iowa-00/merlin_163045368_f7b12d9c-1994-4b19-9a38-0313ba2b4773-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip Gabriel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 21, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MASON CITY, Iowa --- Before last week, Beth Kundel Vogel was undecided
when it came to the Democratic presidential hopefuls.

But in the debate on Tuesday, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/amy-klobuchar.html}{Amy
Klobuchar} of Minnesota impressed her by calling out Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts for offering voters a
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/amy-klobuchar-elizabeth-warren-debate.html?}{pipe
dream}'' rather than a plan to pay for universal health care.

And on Friday, Ms. Kundel Vogel heard Ms. Klobuchar speak passionately
in Davenport, Iowa, about one way of thinking about the 2020 race: the
need to win support beyond the party base. ``We have to remember that
nearly 10 percent of Trump voters voted for Barack Obama,'' Ms.
Klobuchar said. ``It's our job to bring them in.''

``Seeing her in person just closed the deal for me,'' said Ms. Kundel
Vogel, 47, a human resources manager. ``She understands what it's going
to take to win, which is to win over independents and former Trump
voters.''

Riding a post-debate wave of attention, Ms. Klobuchar blitzed New
Hampshire and Iowa last week, attracting new supporters and donors in
those two states with early nominating contests. After months stuck in
the polling doldrums, Ms. Klobuchar is getting a second look. But she
faces several challenges, among them that she is arguing how to win
general election swing states but has yet to show how she would win the
nomination first.

The renewed interest comes as the Democratic field undergoes something
of a shake-up. Ms. Warren and Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont are each jostling to consolidate the left wing,
while the two Midwest moderates in the race, Ms. Klobuchar and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg}, the mayor of South Bend, Ind., are trying to break into the
top tier of candidates after both enjoyed strong debate performances.
Mr. Buttigieg is well ahead of Ms. Klobuchar in recent Iowa polls,
adding to the pressure on her candidacy.

The competitive hunger on the campaign trail reflects a new urgency
especially among moderate candidates and voters seeking an alternative
to the ascendant Ms. Warren. Some donors and supporters of former Vice
President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} suddenly seem up for grabs.

In an interview on Saturday, Ms. Klobuchar drew an even sharper bead on
Ms. Warren, comparing her avoidance of how to pay for ``Medicare for
all'' with Mr. Trump's habitual shirking of the truth.

``You've got a president that lies and doesn't tell the truth, and I
think it puts it on us to say, hey, there's a different kind of
president here where we're going to be honest with you, look you in the
eye, tell you the truth,'' Ms. Klobuchar said. (Ms. Warren
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/20/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-medicare-for-all.html}{announced}
on Sunday that she would release a plan to finance her ``Medicare for
all'' plan in the coming weeks.)

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

For Ms. Klobuchar, the stakes couldn't be higher. She has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/democratic-debate-lineup.html}{yet
to qualify} for the next debate in November. She has hit 3 percent
support in only two qualifying polls,
\href{https://www.suffolk.edu/-/media/suffolk/documents/academics/research-at-suffolk/suprc/polls/other-states/2019/10_21_2019_marignals_pdftxt.pdf?la=en\&hash=F9C7E3EEE4E593F99F37585C0A7362D4007AE4C0}{including
one of Iowa voters released Monday morning}; she needs to reach that
mark in two more national or early state polls.

She is counting on a debate surge to make the cut.

``We are very hopeful that it will; we have a whole month to get it
done,'' Ms. Klobuchar said on her campaign bus as it headed to Waterloo,
Iowa, on Day 2 of a three-day swing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/20/us/politics/00klobuchar-iowa-bus/merlin_163045419_c990e850-a990-4448-a1d8-c1125538d81b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

She packed the rooms where she appeared with 150 to 200 voters, who
applauded warmly, even wildly at times, including when she said, ``We
have a huge amount of momentum coming out of that debate.''

But as a reality check in a state where Ms. Klobuchar drew only 3
percent
\href{https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/politics/iowa-poll/2019/09/22/iowa-poll-election-2020-iowa-caucus-elizabeth-warren-joe-biden-bernie-sanders-democrat-candidates/2370015001/}{in
the latest Des Moines Register poll}, Ms. Warren attracted more than
1,000 at an appearance on Sunday night in Des Moines.

The Klobuchar campaign says it had its best 36 hours of fund-raising
following Tuesday's CNN/New York Times debate, pulling in \$1.5 million
in small-dollar donations. The money paid for a campaign bus wrapped in
green with ``Amy'' in huge letters, and for a five-figure
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2pEOIVWFm8\&feature=youtu.be}{digital
ad campaign} in Iowa. (She began her first TV ad here in early October.)
Still, her cash on hand is tight: As of this month, she had \$3.7
million, putting her
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{eighth
in the field.}

She told Iowans that ``many, many, many, many times'' the ultimate
nominee was not the candidate leading in polls at this point, and she
offered examples: Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama.

On Friday, more Iowans filled in cards at her events committing to
caucus for Ms. Klobuchar than any day of her candidacy.

Still, it is far from certain that post-debate momentum alone will make
her a viable candidate. If she fails to make the next debates, she said,
she will run at least through the Iowa caucuses on Feb. 3. When asked
how high a finish she would need to continue, she offered only a
tight-lipped chuckle.

She did not hint at any strategy shift to create a breakthrough. She
believes her best argument to be the nominee is that she is the most
electable, as a heartland senator with proven appeal to swing voters, as
shown in her re-election to a third term in 2018 when she carried
Minnesota regions that Mr. Trump had won by double digits.

Two voters who committed on Saturday to caucus for Ms. Klobuchar, Tom
and Dorinda Pounds, had watched earlier debates torn among her, Mr.
Buttigieg and Mr. Biden.

``This debate, she finally got a chance to talk, and the way she handled
herself really made a big difference,'' Mr. Pounds, a retired county
administrator, said at a Klobuchar appearance in Waterloo.

During the debate, in addition to calling out Ms. Warren, Ms. Klobuchar
also attacked Mr. Trump more aggressively than Mr. Biden did. Ms.
Klobuchar's newfound readiness to swing a saber appealed to many who
came out to hear her.

``With each candidate, I'm thinking how are they going to be on the
debate stage against Trump, and I think she will handle herself well,''
said Becky Langdon, a freelance writer in Davenport, who is on the fence
about who to support. ``She showed some passion and wanting to fight for
it.''

Ms. Klobuchar was eager over the weekend to contrast herself with Mr.
Buttigieg, who has a far bigger campaign war chest and more committed
supporters in Iowa and New Hampshire.

``I am the one who has won statewide,'' she said, referring to Mr.
Buttigieg's defeat in a 2010 race for Indiana treasurer.

On Sunday in an interview on CNN's ``State of the Union,'' Ms. Klobuchar
aimed a poison dart at Mr. Buttigieg over
\href{https://twitter.com/petebuttigieg/status/965396700511825920?lang=en}{a
2018 tweet} of his in support of a ``Medicare for all'' bill.

Mr. Buttigieg had just told the host Jake Tapper on the same broadcast
that he later gave up backing ``Medicare for all'' after politicians
concluded that it meant eliminating all private insurance.

Ms. Klobuchar was unrelenting. ``The bill has been very clear from the
beginning,'' she said. ``On page eight it says it will dismantle our
current insurance system. It says 149 million people will be kicked off
their current insurance.''

Image

Ms. Klobuchar took a photo with a supporter after a town hall meeting in
Davenport, Iowa.Credit...Jordan Gale for The New York Times

On the stump, Ms. Klobuchar, 59, presents herself as the same
hard-working, results-driven politician as she was when she won her
first election in fourth grade, with the now-discarded slogan ``All the
way with Amy K.''

She name-checks Republicans she teamed up with on more than 100 bills
that passed the Senate. She emphasizes her priorities of strengthening
election security, doubling Pell Grants for college students (but not
free college for all) and lowering medical costs through a public
option.

All her plans include proposals to pay for them, she notes, a point of
pride that reflects a fiscal responsibility that she acquired from her
family.

``I don't come from money,'' Ms. Klobuchar tells voters, recalling her
mother who taught second grade until she was 70 and her newspaperman
father who battled alcoholism.

While the Democratic base is fired up, Ms. Klobuchar argues that the
2020 nominee must carry the battleground states of the Midwest that
voted for Mr. Trump.

In Waterloo, speaking at a brew pub, she surmised there were people in
the crowd who voted for Mr. Trump.

``It's important for us as a party to not shut everyone out, to bring
them with us, to bring back some of those conservative Democrats who
voted for him or stayed home,'' she said. ``To bring back some of our
base, our liberal Democrats who were disenchanted.''

A voter named Bob, whose written question was read out to Ms. Klobuchar,
put his finger on a core dilemma for a candidate who is running on a
message about winning the heartland.

``We need a moderate candidate to beat Trump,'' Bob asked. ``How will
you get through the primary?''

Ms. Klobuchar answered that she considers herself ``a proven
progressive,'' citing her liberal views on abortion, immigration and the
environment.

But rather than answering Bob in depth, she pivoted to talk about the
need for a civil tone in politics.

Image

Ms. Klobuchar spoke to a small crowd at Newbo City Market in Cedar
Rapids.Credit...Jordan Gale for The New York Times

Back on her campaign bus, she made the case more forcefully that someone
with a profile like herself --- rather than Ms. Warren or Mr. Sanders
--- is best positioned to win 2020 swing states. She cited the example
of the 2018 midterms, when Democrats flipped governorships in Wisconsin
and Michigan and gained a House majority by appealing to independents
and disaffected Republicans in the suburbs.

``I just keep going back to 2018 because I have the facts on my side,''
she said. ``Everyone united behind the candidate, but tell me in those
swing House districts, how many of them supported `Medicare for all'?''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
