Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/canada}{Canada}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/canada}{Canada}\textbar{}How a Growing Rift With
Canada Is Unfolding in China

\url{https://nyti.ms/2RUwOxj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Canada Letter

\hypertarget{how-a-growing-rift-with-canada-is-unfolding-in-china}{%
\section{How a Growing Rift With Canada Is Unfolding in
China}\label{how-a-growing-rift-with-canada-is-unfolding-in-china}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/catherine-porter}{Catherine Porter}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 18, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/world/20190121/canada-china-rift/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/world/20190121/canada-china-rift/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

Hello, Canada Letter readers. This is Catherine Porter, filling in for
Ian Austen. Like many Canadians, I have China on my mind this week.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/19/world/19canadaletter-1/merlin_149337141_d8fdf302-51ec-47f6-8e79-0e30f4c1764c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A little more than a year ago, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was
traveling to Beijing, hoping for a free trade deal. How things have
changed. Since Canada carried out an American warrant and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/05/business/huawei-cfo-arrest-canada-extradition.html}{arrested
Huawei's chief financial officer}, Meng Wanzhou, in the Vancouver
airport last month, Canada seems to have become enemy No. 1 of the
Chinese government. The price has been steep for three Canadians in
particular:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/11/world/asia/michael-kovrig-china-canada.html?module=inline}{Michael
Kovrig} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/world/asia/michael-spavor-canadian-detained-china.html}{Michael
Spavor}, both detained in China and accused of threatening national
security, as well as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/16/world/asia/china-canada-schellenberg-death.html}{Robert
Schellenberg}, who was hastily retried this week for drug smuggling. His
original sentence of 15 years in prison was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/14/world/asia/china-canada-schellenberg-retrial.html}{replaced
with the death penalty}.

\emph{{[}Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/canada-letter}{\emph{Sign up
here}}\emph{.{]}}

In Canada, the sentence has been viewed as a kind of international
ransom. But I wondered how the détente has been perceived in China. I
reached out to my colleague Chris Buckley. An Australian by birth, Chris
has lived in China for more than two decades and studied Chinese
Communist Party history at Renmin University in Beijing. He joined The
Times in 2012.

\textbf{What is public opinion of Canada like in China now?}

It's not simple. When I walk home from work at night, I pass close by
the newly opened Canada Goose store in Beijing, and there have been long
lines of people waiting to go in. On the other hand, I think that most
Chinese people accept their government's view that Huawei is being
victimized in the West and that Meng Wanzhou was unfairly arrested in
Canada.

\textbf{How has the Schellenberg case been reported in Chinese media?}

It's been getting attention here in China, too, though not on the same
level as it has received in Canada. The cases of Michael Kovrig and
Michael Spavor were reported in the Chinese media, mostly accounts of
their arrests and the Chinese foreign ministry's pushback against
criticism. Robert Schellenberg's appeal hearing and detention attracted
more media attention, using the court's account of the trial. Throughout
all this, the Global Times, which is a brashly nationalist newspaper and
website, has led the way in criticizing the Canadian government.

Image

Robert Lloyd Schellenberg was retried on drug trafficking charges in
China this week and was sentenced to death.Credit...Intermediate
Peoples' Court of Dalian

\textbf{Reporters were invited to observe the trial. Why would China do
that?}

It's very unusual for foreign reporters to be allowed in to watch
criminal trials. I've never been inside a Chinese criminal trial. The
court hasn't said exactly why it made an exception in Mr. Schellenberg's
case. But I suspect two reasons. First, the court and government wanted
to show that he received what counts for a proper hearing in China.
Second, if Mr. Schellenberg is being used as a bargaining chip, it makes
sense for the Chinese government to publicize the trial.

\textbf{How unusual is it in China for a pending execution to be
publicized?}

In heinous murders and crimes like that, the government often publicizes
executions. In a case like this --- a drug smuggling case involving a
foreigner --- it is much less common. This might be the Chinese
government sending a warning to potential drug traffickers, or maybe a
way of putting pressure on Canada.

\textbf{What is the feeling among foreigners inside China now?}

Foreigners from Western countries, especially Canada, have been a bit
spooked by the arrests. There is certainly not a mass exit of Westerners
from China. But I think there is a subsection of people who, like
Michael Kovrig --- a former diplomat who worked for a policy NGO ---
have a government job background and talk to Chinese academics and
officials for their work. For them, especially, his arrest seems to have
been unnerving.

Image

Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of Huawei, leaving her home in
Vancouver last month with a security guard.Credit...Jonathan Hayward/The
Canadian Press, via Associated Press

\textbf{Where do you see this going?}

Ms. Meng's fight against possible extradition to the United States could
take many months, even longer. How long it takes for Mr. Schellenberg to
work through his appeal and other means for seeking clemency depends
very much on how slow or fast the Chinese government wants to go. So for
Mr. Schellenberg this could be a long, agonizing wait. Meanwhile, Mr.
Kovrig and Mr. Spavor remain in detention and haven't even been formally
charged with specific crimes. So I think this story will be in the news
for many months to come, and maybe longer.

\emph{\_\_\_}

\emph{This week's Trans Canada and Around The Times highlights were
compiled by Lindsey Wiebe, the Canada audience growth editor.}

\hypertarget{trans-canada}{%
\subsection{Trans Canada}\label{trans-canada}}

---Robert Lloyd Schellenberg plans to appeal after being
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/14/world/asia/china-canada-schellenberg-retrial.html?module=inline}{sentenced
to death for drug smuggling} this week in China, amid a deepening
diplomatic rift between Canada and China.

---The 18-year-old who fled Saudi Arabia
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/14/world/canada/rahaf-mohammed-alqunun-interview.html}{is
ready to experience life as a teenager in Canada}. She's less sure about
the cold.

---Violent disaster footage used in the Netflix movie ``Bird Box'' may
have looked like realistic C.G.I. But the scenes were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/17/arts/television/bird-box-netflix-explosion.html}{real
footage} from the 2013 rail explosion that killed 47 people in
Lac-Mégantic, Quebec.

---In a show of classic Canadian niceness, the country's air traffic
controllers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/14/world/canada/shutdown-air-traffic-controllers-pizza.html}{sent
pizza to their American counterparts}, who are working without pay
during the U.S. government shutdown.

---Now in its fifth season,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/15/arts/television/schitts-creek-season-5.html}{Schitt's
Creek is light, loopy and feel-good} in the best possible ways, writes
television critic Margaret Lyons of the Canadian sitcom.

\hypertarget{around-the-times}{%
\subsection{Around The Times}\label{around-the-times}}

---How is glacier loss affecting the hundreds of millions of people who
depend on them for water?
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/01/15/climate/melting-glaciers-globally.html?emc=edit_aust_20190117\&nl=nyt-australia\&nlid=6007619620190117\&te=1}{See
the impact in Kazakhstan}, in stunning detail.

---An orca pod that made headlines after a mother whale carried her dead
calf for 17 days has another new baby.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/17/science/orca-calf-seattle.html}{This
calf looks healthy} so far --- and it could be a lifeline for the group.

---It's mid-January, and your Marie Kondo-inspired organizing efforts
have come up short. It might be time to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/16/smarter-living/professional-organizers-productivity-clutter.html?fallback=0\&recId=1FukyvaGEjyn7aw714343SyAc60\&locked=1\&geoContinent=NA\&geoRegion=ON\&recAlloc=control\&geoCountry=CA\&blockId=home-living-vi\&imp_id=139870849\&action=click\&module=Smarter\%20Living\&pgtype=Homepage}{call
on the pros}.

---Most of the couples in the young penguin colony weren't very
promising parents --- with two exceptions. Sphen and Magic,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/15/style/gay-penguins-australia.html}{the
gay penguins of Sydney's aquarium,} are now raising a chick of their
own.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
