Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/books/review}{Book Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}12 New Books We
Recommend This Week

\url{https://nyti.ms/311KYiN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Editors' Choice

\hypertarget{12-new-books-we-recommend-this-week}{%
\section{12 New Books We Recommend This
Week}\label{12-new-books-we-recommend-this-week}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/books/30RecBooks/30RecBooks-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

July 30, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Regular listeners of the Book Review's podcast know that I have a soft
spot for thrillers. From time to time, I don't mind giving up a bit of
psychological complexity in exchange for ingenious plotting and the
clarity of life-or-death action scenes. (That's not to suggest the
trade-off is necessary: Just look at John le Carr√©'s nuanced and morally
ambiguous spies.) We recommend some good ones this week, from Camilla
Lackberg's ``The Golden Cage,'' about a vengeful wife, to Lauren
Beukes's ``Afterland,'' about a pandemic that singles out men, to Alex
North's ``The Shadows,'' about a copycat killing that brings the past
roaring back. There's also a real-life spy narrative, about the role of
the K.G.B. in Russian politics, and a true-crime history about a
19th-century grifter.

For readers who prefer quieter thrills, we recommend Alex Trebek's
memoir, ``The Answer Is\ldots{},'' along with Zadie Smith's latest essay
collection and Colin Dickey's sympathetic look at true believers in the
paranormal.

Gregory Cowles\\
Senior Editor, Books\\
Twitter: @GregoryCowles

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/books/review-answer-is-alex-trebek-jeopardy-memoir.html}{\textbf{THE
ANSWER IS...: Reflections on My Life}}\textbf{,} \emph{by Alex Trebek.
(Simon \& Schuster, \$26.)} Only after the outpouring of support
following his announcement last year that he had pancreatic cancer did
the longtime ``Jeopardy!'' host Alex Trebek, a private and reserved
person, feel he owed something to the public. The ``Jeopardy!'' champion
Ken Jennings has described Trebek as ``a riddle wrapped in an enigma
wrapped in a Perry Ellis suit.'' So perhaps it's no surprise that Trebek
has written what our critic Parul Sehgal calls ``a memoir of consummate
caginess, one of the wariest I've read: a friendly, often funny account
marked by a reluctance so deep that it confers a curious integrity upon
the celebrity tell-all.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/books/review-putins-people-kgb-catherine-belton.html}{\textbf{PUTIN'S
PEOPLE: How the KGB Took Back Russia and Then Took On the
West}}\textbf{,} \emph{by Catherine Belton. (Farrar, Straus \& Giroux,
\$35.)} This book by the dauntless investigative reporter Catherine
Belton is a meticulously assembled portrait of Vladimir Putin's circle,
and of the emergence of what Belton calls ``K.G.B. capitalism'' --- a
form of ruthless wealth accumulation designed to serve the interests of
a Russian state that she calls ``relentless in its reach.'' Belton
talked to figures with disparate interests on all sides, tracked down
documents and followed the money to write a ``voluminous yet elegant
account of money and power in the Kremlin,'' our critic Jennifer Szalai
writes.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/books/review-intimations-essays-zadie-smith.html}{\textbf{INTIMATIONS:
Six Essays}}\textbf{,} \emph{by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Books, \$10.95.)}
In her slender new collection (less than 100 pages) of ultra-timely
essays (several written in the past few momentous months), Zadie Smith
speaks clearly and forcefully about the murder of George Floyd, the
legacy of slavery and the systemic sins revealed by Covid-19. The book
also showcases her trademark levelheadedness on a variety of other
subjects. ``This is a work of minor dimensions at --- and about --- a
major time,'' our reviewer John Williams writes.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/books/review/kate-reed-petty-true-story.html}{\textbf{\textbf{TRUE
STORY}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by Kate Reed Petty. (Viking, \$26.)}
In her spellbinding debut novel --- about the rippling impact of a
sexual assault --- Petty uses shifting genres to show the way trauma
works on us, how it shapes our lived experience and the way we frame
that experience for others. ``After a day or two, the book continued to
work on me,'' Megan Abbott writes in her review, ``spurring me to
question my own expectations of genre, and even story itself, and their
capacity to get at stickier truths about trauma and its reverberations
and what we expect from narratives dealing with sexual assault.''

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/books/review/king-of-confidence-miles-harvey-james-jesse-strang.html}{\textbf{THE
KING OF CONFIDENCE: A Tale of Utopian Dreamers, Frontier Schemers, True
Believers, False Prophets, and the Murder of an American Monarch}}},****
\emph{by Miles Harvey. (Little, Brown, \$29.)} Harvey's entertaining
history of James Jesse Strang, a 19th-century con man who led a
breakaway Mormon colony on an island in Lake Michigan, chronicles a
manic, anxious, gullible time, not unlike our own. ``Rather than a
probing biography of a single man,'' Chris Jennings writes in his
review, ``Harvey offers a vivid portrait of the time and place in which
a character like Strang could thrive, an era when `reality was porous'
and an anxious population cast about for something exciting to believe
in and someone confident to follow.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/07/books/review/the-golden-cage-camilla-lackberg.html}{\textbf{\textbf{THE
GOLDEN CAGE}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by Camilla Lackberg. Translated
by Neil Smith. (Knopf, \$26.95.)} Faye Adelheim appears to have an
enviable life --- a wealthy husband, a perfect child, a sumptuous
Stockholm apartment --- until it all falls away. That's when this
stylish thriller gathers steam, taking readers on a whirlwind tour of
retribution and revenge. The moral: Never underestimate a spurned wife
\ldots{} or her friends. ``It would be remiss not to mention the theme
of sisterhood in this smart, unflinching novel,'' our reviewer, Mary
Kubica, writes. ``Women in it are rarely pitted against one another, but
are instead united by common experience. Their friendships are
empowering in and of themselves, and the dispensability of the opposite
sex --- except perhaps for sexual pleasure --- speaks volumes.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/books/review/blacktop-wasteland-s-a-cosby.html}{\textbf{\textbf{BLACKTOP
WASTELAND}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by S. A. Cosby. (Flatiron,
\$26.99.)} In this gritty thriller, set in rural Virginia, Beauregard
``Bug'' Montage --- the owner of a struggling auto shop --- is drifting
back into his old life of crime. Cosby has a talent for well-tuned
action, raising our heart rates and filling our nostrils with odors of
gun smoke and burned rubber. Daniel Nieh, reviewing it, calls the book a
``thrilling reminder that small-town America has an underbelly, too.
\ldots{} Cosby's voice is distinctive, and he plays a sharp-tongued
Virgil as we descend into the Hades of bucolic poverty.''

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/books/review/the-unidentified-colin-dickey.html}{\textbf{THE
UNIDENTIFIED: Mythical Monsters, Alien Encounters, and Our Obsession
With the Unexplained}}},**** \emph{by Colin Dickey. (Viking, \$27.)} Why
do so many people find paranormal events and ideas so persuasively real?
As Dickey explains, it's not that they necessarily want weirdness, but
they do want the freedom of possibility. So there's beauty in the idea
of ``a world beyond our understanding, a world we can glimpse here and
there but never fully see.'' Deborah Blum's review calls it a
``fascinating, troubling, compassionate and --- in the end --- deeply
thoughtful narrative. \ldots{} Dickey's sense of history reminds us of
the complex reasons our odder beliefs endure.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/books/review/stan-parish-love-and-theft.html}{\textbf{\textbf{LOVE
AND THEFT}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by Stan Parish. (Doubleday,
\$25.95.)} Though this novel opens with a thrilling set piece --- a
spectacular Vegas jewel heist --- Parish's true interests lie in his
characters, all battered people looking for absolution or, failing that,
some form of shelter, maybe in one another. ``Attention to
sentence-by-sentence pleasure is an undervalued, even disdained, skill
among thriller writers,'' Adam Sternbergh writes in his review. ``But a
precision-cut sentence can quicken the reader's pulse as reliably as a
surprise twist or a character's excruciating dilemma. When a novel
delivers all of the above --- as `Love and Theft' ultimately does, its
racecar engine revving to a smooth and satisfying purr --- it can feel
to the reader like a kind of miracle.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/books/review/lauren-beukes-afterland.html}{\textbf{\textbf{AFTERLAND}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}}
\emph{by Lauren Beukes. (Mulholland, \$28.)} Beukes brings verve and
mordant wit to her neo-noir, coast-to-coast chase novel, set shortly
after a pandemic has wiped out 99 percent of the men in the world. The
author is from South Africa, and sees America with the fresh eyes of an
outsider. ``Will readers want a pandemic novel at this fraught moment in
American life?'' Stephen King writes in his review. ``Maybe they will.
Make that probably. Because our current situation looks pretty good
compared with a world where young boys have been declared a natural
resource and sperm bootlegging means imprisonment.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/books/review/araminta-hall-imperfect-women.html}{\textbf{\textbf{IMPERFECT
WOMEN}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by Araminta Hall. (MCD/Farrar, Straus
\& Giroux, \$27.)} Although there's a murder at the heart of ``Imperfect
Women,'' it's not a conventional detective story. Its real mysteries
concern love, friendship, obligation and the disappointments that come
with the passage of time. ``The book creeps on you slowly, like a fog,''
Sarah Lyall writes in her review, ``until you find yourself enveloped in
this tangled skein of relationships, eager to see how all this is going
to play out, who is going to betray whom and in what way.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/07/books/review/the-shadows-alex-north.html}{\textbf{\textbf{THE
SHADOWS}}}\textbf{\textbf{,}} \emph{by Alex North. (Celadon, \$26.99.)}
In North's assured thriller, the narrative shifts between past and
present as a man in his 40s returns to his bleak hometown and learns of
a recent murder that appears to be a copycat of one that rocked his
adolescent world. This is absorbing, headlong reading, an inventive play
on classic horror. ``North is aware of how a good horror novel can
subtly rearrange a reader's surroundings, charging them with menace,''
Flynn Berry writes in her review. ``As with all the best illusions, you
are left feeling not tricked, but full of wonder.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
