Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Washington N.F.L.
Team Owner Files Claims Hinting at a Conspiracy

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XL6xU1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{washington-nfl-team-owner-files-claims-hinting-at-a-conspiracy}{%
\section{Washington N.F.L. Team Owner Files Claims Hinting at a
Conspiracy}\label{washington-nfl-team-owner-files-claims-hinting-at-a-conspiracy}}

Daniel Snyder is seeking documents from a former employee to bolster his
case asserting a campaign to damage him is being waged as shareholders
seek to sell their stake in the team.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/10/sports/10nfl-snyder-1/merlin_174402759_b0bc0aa4-215e-4ac8-a7cf-6f17cd133320-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-rosman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/22/multimedia/author-katherine-rosman/author-katherine-rosman-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-rosman}{Katherine
Rosman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 10, 2020Updated Aug. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Daniel Snyder, the owner of the Washington Football Team, has accused a
disgruntled former team employee of taking money and assisting in a
campaign to spread damaging information against him, his latest effort
to fight back attacks on his ownership of the N.F.L. club.

In a filing on Monday in Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va.,
Snyder asked for access to documents that the former employee,
\href{http://prod.static.redskins.clubs.nfl.com/assets/docs/Washington-Redskins-Media-Guide.pdf}{Mary-Ellen
Blair}, who was an executive assistant in the front office, has,
including confidential team records, that might bolster his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/sports/dan-snyder-washington-nfl-defamation-lawsuit.html}{defamation
case against an Indian media company} that he contends published
defamatory rumors about him.

``We are aggressively pursuing Mary-Ellen Blair, a disgruntled former
employee who is clearly in the pocket of another and complicit in this
scheme to defame Mr. Snyder, in order to ensure that the full weight of
the law comes down heavily on all those responsible for these heinous
acts,'' one of Snyder's lawyers, Joe Tacopina, said in a statement.

The filing, known as a request for discovery, was made three days after
Snyder filed a defamation lawsuit in New Delhi against Media
Entertainment Arts WorldWide, whose parent company is in India. Media
Entertainment Arts WorldWide published articles on its website in July
that Snyder considered slanderous and that have since been taken down.
Snyder accused the company of accepting money to publish the articles.
He wants to identify who paid for them.

Nirnay Chowdhary, a founder of M.E.A. WorldWide, admitted errors were
made in the publication of the articles, but he denied that his company
accepted money in exchange for their publication.

The case comes amid a growing battle between Snyder and three of his
largest minority shareholders, who have been seeking to sell their
stakes, which amount to roughly 40 percent of the team. The minority
shareholders, including Frederick W. Smith, the chairman of FedEx, hired
an investment banker to broker a sale. Snyder has shown no interest in
selling his majority stake in the team, which he has owned since 1999.

While Snyder pursues the source of the articles, he has also hired an
investigator to look into accusations, detailed in a Washington Post
report, of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/sports/football/washington-sexual-assault-harassment-dan-snyder.html}{widespread
sexual harassment} in the team's front office, which he has not denied.
In July, he agreed to drop the team's name and logo after many years of
protests by Native American groups and others who considered it racist.
Snyder was pressured by several sponsors, most notably FedEx, which
threatened to sever its multimillion-dollar stadium naming rights deal
if the team name was not changed.

According to the filing on Monday, Blair, starting in late May or early
June, started reaching out to current and former team employees seeking
information that would discredit the team owner. In July, she called
someone that the filing describes as a team employee who works daily
with Snyder and said the person could ``probably make a lot of money''
by providing damaging information about Snyder, the filing said.

Reached briefly by phone on Monday, Blair said she was unaware of the
filing. ``That's funny,'' she said when told of some of the details
included in it. She didn't respond to further request for comment.

In an emailed statement, Lisa J. Banks, Blair's lawyer, said that
Snyder's naming of her in the filing is ``an obvious and inappropriate
attempt to silence Ms. Blair and others who may wish to communicate with
legitimate news organizations about the culture of sexism, harassment
and abuse that has existed at the highest levels of the Washington
Football Team.''

The filing also said Blair told a personal employee of Snyder's and two
other team employees that ``she was in contact with and working in
coordination with a third party'' and that she and that third party were
involved in preparing articles that were going to be damaging to Snyder.
The third party, she told them, was not a journalist, but was ``well
known to each of the involved persons.''

According to the filing, Blair also told a team employee who has
frequent contact with Snyder that she had been told by someone not
employed by The Washington Post, but well known to this employee, that
an article would be published in the newspaper in approximately a week
that would not be ``good for Dan.'' This was weeks before rumors about
the subject of the article began circulating on social media.

According to the filing, Blair also told a ``longtime personal
employee'' of Snyder's before the social media whispering about the
publication of damaging stories that ``something big was going to
happen.'' Blair also told this employee that ``several of the team's
minority owners did not want to do business'' with Snyder any longer.

In the filing, Snyder said Blair left the team on bad terms and ``has
since admitted to having absconded with confidential information''
belonging to the team. The filing also describes what it says are
Blair's financial difficulties and says that while she worked for the
team, her wages were garnished.

Snyder contended that she has an unidentified ``financial benefactor''
who has provided discounted rent in luxury apartment buildings in
Virginia that are connected to a minority shareholder who is seeking to
sell his stake.

\href{https://ir.comstockcompanies.com/governance/board-of-directors/person-details/default.aspx?ItemId=85483487-ac3c-4167-8922-9b2ef50ddfce}{Tracy
Schar}, the daughter of Dwight Schar, one of the team's minority
shareholders seeking to sell, is senior vice president for marketing and
brand management at Comstock Holding Companies, the real estate
development company that manages the building where Blair lives. Two
other members of Comstock's board worked for Red Zone Capital, which is
co-owned by Dwight Schar and Snyder, according to a
\href{https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1299969/000119312518195633/d612406d8k.htm}{2018
government filing}.

Snyder, in the filing, requested the right to have access to documents
from Blair and Comstock to gather more material to bolster his
defamation suit in India against Media Entertainment Arts WorldWide.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
