Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}How the `Plandemic'
Movie and Its Falsehoods Spread Widely Online

\href{https://nyti.ms/2zVppXa}{https://nyti.ms/2zVppXa}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-plandemic-movie-and-its-falsehoods-spread-widely-online}{%
\section{How the `Plandemic' Movie and Its Falsehoods Spread Widely
Online}\label{how-the-plandemic-movie-and-its-falsehoods-spread-widely-online}}

Interactions on Facebook for popular videos

2.5 million interactions

``Plandemic''

2.0

1.5

Pentagon

``aerial phenomena''

1.0

``The Office'' reunion

0.5

Taylor Swift's ``City of Lover''

0.0

First

post

1 week

after

2 weeks

after

2.5 million interactions

``Plandemic''

2.0

Total interactions on Facebook for recent popular videos

1.5

1.0

Pentagon

``aerial

phenomena''

``The Office'' reunion

0.5

Taylor Swift's ``City of Lover''

0.0

First post

1 week after

2 weeks after

2.5 million interactions

``Plandemic''

2.0

Total interactions on Facebook for recent popular videos

1.5

1.0

Pentagon

``aerial

phenomena''

``The Office'' reunion

0.5

Taylor Swift's ``City of Lover''

0.0

First post

1 week after

2 weeks after

Interactions include reactions, likes, shares and comments. Posts for
each video are counted from the first one that contained the video
through May 15 on public groups and pages on Facebook.

Source: CrowdTangle

By The New York Times

Conspiracy theories about the pandemic have gained more traction than
mainstream online events. Here's how.

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera
Frenkel}, Ben Decker and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/davey-alba}{Davey Alba}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

There have been plenty of jaw-dropping digital moments during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{the
coronavirus pandemic}.

There was the time this month when Taylor Swift
\href{https://variety.com/2020/music/news/taylor-swift-city-lover-concert-paris-abc-special-1234601657/}{announced}
she would air her ``City of Lover'' concert on television. The time that
the cast of ``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NDjNX3nEfYo}{The
Office''}\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NDjNX3nEfYo}{**}\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NDjNX3nEfYo}{reunited}
for an 18-minute-long Zoom wedding. And the time last month that the
Pentagon
\href{https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Releases/Release/Article/2165713/statement-by-the-department-of-defense-on-the-release-of-historical-navy-videos/}{posted
three videos} that showed unexplained ``aerial phenomena.''

Yet none of those went as viral as a 26-minute video called
``Plandemic,'' a slickly produced narration that wrongly claimed a
shadowy cabal of elites was using the virus and a potential vaccine to
profit and gain power. The video featured a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/09/technology/plandemic-judy-mikovitz-coronavirus-disinformation.html}{discredited
scientist, Judy Mikovits}, who said her research about the harm from
vaccines had been buried.

``Plandemic'' went online on May 4 when its maker, Mikki Willis, a
little-known film producer, posted it to Facebook, YouTube, Vimeo and a
separate website set up to share the video. For three days, it gathered
steam in Facebook pages dedicated to conspiracy theories and the
anti-vaccine movement, most of which linked to the video hosted on
YouTube. Then it tipped into the mainstream and exploded.

Just over a week after ``Plandemic'' was released, it had been viewed
more than eight million times on YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and
Instagram, and had generated countless other posts.

The New York Times focused on the video's spread on Facebook using data
from CrowdTangle, a tool to analyze interactions across the social
network. (YouTube and Twitter do not make their data as readily
available.) The ascent of ``Plandemic'' was largely powered by Facebook
groups and pages that shared the YouTube link.

On Facebook, ``Plandemic'' was liked, commented on or shared nearly 2.5
million times, according to the CrowdTangle data. That far outdid Ms.
Swift's May 8 announcement about her ``City of Lover'' concert, which
plateaued at about 110,000 such interactions on Facebook. ``The Office''
cast's Zoom wedding video, which was posted on May 10, reached 618,000
interactions in less than a week. And the Pentagon's videos, which were
posted on April 27, had one million interactions two weeks after the
first post.

``Plandemic'' stormed into people's Facebook, Twitter and YouTube feeds
even though its claims were widely debunked and the social media
companies vowed to remove the video. Yet it has continued spreading
online, raising questions about how it might damage trust in the medical
community and color people's views on a coronavirus vaccine.

Mr. Willis, who
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/movies/story/2020-05-13/plandemic-coronavirus-documentary-director-mikki-willis-mikovits}{has
said} he plans to release a second video, did not respond to a request
for comment.

Here's how ``Plandemic'' went from a niche conspiracy video to a
mainstream phenomenon.

\hypertarget{the-qanon-factor}{%
\subsection{The QAnon Factor}\label{the-qanon-factor}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/21/business/21plandemic1/00plandemic1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

On the morning of May 5, less than 24 hours after Mr. Willis posted
``Plandemic,'' a Facebook group dedicated to QAnon, a right-wing
conspiracy group, posted ``Plandemic'' to its nearly 25,000 members with
the headline ``Exclusive Content, Must Watch.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{31h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{34h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{41h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Within days, more than 1,660 people had shared the video to their own
Facebook pages after watching it on the QAnon page, according to
CrowdTangle. The video went from being viewed directly on YouTube to
people linking out to the video on Facebook, Twitter and other social
media channels, fueling its rise.

0 posts

1,000

2,000

May 4

Statuses

YouTube

videos

May 6

Other

videos

Links

May 9

Photos

May 11

``Plandemic''~posts per day on Facebook, by type of post

YouTube videos

Other videos

May 13

Links

Photos

Statuses

Native videos

Live videos

May 15

2,500 posts

2,000

``Plandemic''~posts per day on Facebook, by type of post

YouTube

videos

1,500

1,000

Links

Other

videos

500

Photos

Statuses

Native videos

0

Live video

May 4

May 6

May 9

May 11

May 13

May 15

The live video category includes posts with completed and scheduled live
videos. Posts are counted from the first one that contained the video
through May 15 on public groups and pages on Facebook.

Source: CrowdTangle

By The New York Times

\hypertarget{a-doctors-endorsement}{%
\subsection{A Doctor's Endorsement}\label{a-doctors-endorsement}}

Image

On the afternoon of May 5, Dr. Christiane Northrup, a women's health
physician, shared ``Plandemic'' with her nearly half a million Facebook
followers. Dr. Northrup, who had developed a following from her
appearances as a medical expert on ``Oprah,'' had previously expressed
misgivings about vaccines.

Her status as a celebrity doctor made her endorsement of ``Plandemic''
powerful. After Dr. Northrup shared the video, more than 1,000 people
also shared it, many of them to groups that oppose mandatory
vaccinations, according to an analysis by The Times. She did not respond
to a request for comment.

\hypertarget{reopen-americas-move}{%
\subsection{Reopen America's Move}\label{reopen-americas-move}}

Image

By the evening of May 5, ``Plandemic'' had popped up on a large-scale
political page on Facebook.

The page was for Reopen Alabama, which has over 36,000 members and was
part of the movement by Americans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/us/politics/coronavirus-protests-trump.html}{who
wanted to lift shelter-in-place orders}. Once the video appeared on that
page, which was linked to dozens of other Reopen America groups, it
quickly began spreading to the pages of those other groups in a kind of
forceful multiplier effect.

The Facebook user who posted ``Plandemic'' to the Reopen Alabama page
did not respond to a request for comment.

\hypertarget{the-mma-fighter}{%
\subsection{The M.M.A. Fighter}\label{the-mma-fighter}}

Image

That same night, Nick Catone, a professional mixed martial arts fighter,
also shared ``Plandemic'' on his Facebook page. Mr. Catone, 38, with
nearly 70,000 followers on Facebook, has been an anti-vaccine activist
since the death of his nearly 2-year-old son in 2017. Mr. Catone, who
did not respond to a request for comment, has publicly blamed vaccines
for his son's death.

More than 2,000 people quickly liked Mr. Catone's post about
``Plandemic,'' which he exhorted people to watch before it was taken
down. His post was one of the first by a public figure who had no
special medical expertise.

\hypertarget{the-politicians-post}{%
\subsection{The Politician's Post}\label{the-politicians-post}}

Image

Two days after ``Plandemic'' went online, it came to the attention of
Melissa Ackison, who lost in the Republican primary for Ohio's 26th
District Senate seat last month.

On May 6, Ms. Ackison, 41, an anti-Obamacare campaigner, posted the
video and told her 20,000 followers on Facebook, ``If you watch ANYTHING
on my page, it needs to be this.''

Her post spread the video to a broader political audience, which then
shared it among conservative groups and other Republican campaign pages.

``I knew when I shared that video that people would watch,'' Ms. Ackison
said. ``People know me as a person who is skeptical of what the
mainstream media narrative is telling them.''

\hypertarget{mainstream-medias-tipping-point}{%
\subsection{Mainstream Media's Tipping
Point}\label{mainstream-medias-tipping-point}}

Image

BuzzFeed wrote
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/janelytvynenko/coronavirus-plandemic-viral-harmful-fauci-mikovits?utm_source=dynamic\&utm_campaign=bffbbuzzfeedscience\&ref=bffbbuzzfeedscience\&fbclid=IwAR1n7O_S9Y3xabxOgcn2-KRQPWBWUsO5GgR3WmZp-JQhRIFBRtXCg-fn1uY}{an
article} on May 7 about ``Plandemic'' and its falsehoods, in one of the
first signs that the mainstream news media had noticed the video. The
article was shared on 63 Facebook pages, including the page of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/18/us/politics/occupy-democrats-facebook.html}{Occupy
Democrats}, a popular left-wing group, according to The Times's
analysis.

```Plandemic' is a part of a larger narrative of conspiracy theories and
disinformation reporters have been highlighting since the pandemic
began,'' Jane Lytvynenko, who reported on the video for BuzzFeed, said
in an email. ``Its popularity shows how vital it is to keep reporting on
false and misleading information and take online events as seriously as
offline ones.''

After BuzzFeed published its piece, the tenor of comments and shares
around ``Plandemic'' shifted. More people began to fact-check and debunk
the video.

That same day, YouTube and Facebook removed ``Plandemic'' for violating
their misinformation policies. By then, the video was fully in the
mainstream.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
