Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Geert Wilders, Dutch
Far-Right Leader, Is Convicted of Inciting Discrimination

\url{https://nyti.ms/2h4kuYH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{geert-wilders-dutch-far-right-leader-is-convicted-of-inciting-discrimination}{%
\section{Geert Wilders, Dutch Far-Right Leader, Is Convicted of Inciting
Discrimination}\label{geert-wilders-dutch-far-right-leader-is-convicted-of-inciting-discrimination}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/09/world/europe/10Wilders/10Wilders-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Nina Siegal

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 9, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

AMSTERDAM --- Geert Wilders, the far-right politician who is seen as a
likely contender to become prime minister when Dutch voters go to the
polls next year, was convicted on Friday of inciting discrimination and
of insulting a group for leading an anti-Moroccan chant at a political
rally in the Netherlands.

The three-member judiciary panel found that
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/01/world/europe/geert-wilders-netherlands-hate-trial.html}{Mr.
Wilders}, the leader of the Party for Freedom, violated Dutch law with
his remarks on March 19, 2014, but it elected not to convict him of
inciting hatred, and it imposed no punishment, rejecting the
prosecutors' request to fine him 5,000 euros, or about \$5,300.

Mr. Wilders was found to have violated laws on inciting discrimination
and group offense when he led a crowd at a political rally around the
time of municipal elections in The Hague in chanting, ``Fewer, fewer''
to the question ``Do you want more or fewer Moroccans in this city and
in the Netherlands?''

The court, however, said that Mr. Wilders was not guilty of hate-speech
charges in connection with comments he made about Moroccans in a
nationally broadcast TV program recorded at a public market a week
before the rally.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/05/22/world/europe/europe-right-wing-austria-hungary.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/05/22/world/europe/europe-right-wing-austria-hungary-1463897749837/europe-right-wing-austria-hungary-1463897749837-thumbLarge-v5.png}

\hypertarget{how-far-is-europe-swinging-to-the-right}{%
\subsection{How Far Is Europe Swinging to the
Right?}\label{how-far-is-europe-swinging-to-the-right}}

Right-wing parties have been achieving electoral success in a growing
number of nations.

The effect of the verdict on Mr. Wilders and on his party's chances when
the Dutch elections are held in March is unclear, but the trial seems to
have improved his party's standing, rather than diminishing it, among
voters.

If the Party for Freedom wins the most seats in the elections, Mr.
Wilders could become prime minister, and he would then have to form a
coalition government with other willing parties.

Prime Minister Mark Rutte, leader of the center-right People's Party for
Freedom and Democracy, said a year ago that he would refuse to join such
a coalition unless Mr. Wilders retracted his comments about Moroccans.
Mr. Rutte confirmed that sentiment at his weekly news conference on
Friday, The Associated Press reported.

Mr. Wilders, whose defense team said he would appeal the decision next
week, was not present when the verdict was read by the chief judge,
Hendrik Steenhuis, at a secured courtroom on a military base near
Schiphol Airport, outside Amsterdam.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/12/05/world/europe/populism-in-age-of-trump.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/12/05/world/europe/populism-after-trump-1480936580001/populism-after-trump-1480936580001-thumbLarge.png}

\hypertarget{european-populism-in-the-age-of-donald-trump}{%
\subsection{European Populism in the Age of Donald
Trump}\label{european-populism-in-the-age-of-donald-trump}}

How leaders of European populist movements have reacted to the election
of Donald J. Trump.

The site was chosen to protect Mr. Wilders, who has been under constant
guard because of death threats related to a long history of inflammatory
comments, as well as the judge and prosecutors.

``The most important thing is that he is found guilty of group insult
and inciting discrimination,'' said a spokesman for the public
prosecution service, Frans Zonneveld. ``For now, we're very satisfied
that he has been found guilty of these two charges.''

In their ruling, the judges said that Mr. Wilders's comments at the
rally had contributed to the further polarization of Dutch society by
using ``nationality as an ethnic designation'' and that mutual respect
was imperative in the ``pluralistic'' Netherlands.

``He said that he was supported by millions of people and therefore was
not to blame of offending a group,'' Judge Steenhuis said. ``It's
important to answer the question of whether he was guilty of this. That
question is answered in our court system. We state that you cannot
offend groups of people and discriminate against them.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/world/europe/europe-far-right-political-parties-listy.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/05/21/world/21FarRight-Greece/21FarRight-Greece-videoLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{europes-rising-far-right-a-guide-to-the-most-prominent-parties}{%
\subsection{Europe's Rising Far Right: A Guide to the Most Prominent
Parties}\label{europes-rising-far-right-a-guide-to-the-most-prominent-parties}}

Amid a migrant crisis and discontent with the European Union, many
far-right parties have achieved electoral success. Here are eight of the
most noteworthy.

Mr. Wilders,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/12/world/europe/donald-trump-marine-le-pen.html}{who
has taken a page out of President-elect Donald J. Trump's playbook} ---
he adopted the campaign slogan ``Make the Netherlands Great Again'' and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k94uGHHDGUE\&feature=youtu.be}{attended
the Republican convention in the United States} --- has repeatedly made
vitriolic and inflammatory remarks about Islam, the Quran, immigrants
and Dutch minority groups. Since the election of Mr. Trump, the Party
for Freedom has been surging in the polls.

``I still cannot believe it, but I have just been convicted because I
asked a question about Moroccans,'' Mr. Wilders said in a video that was
posted online.

``The Netherlands have become a sick country,'' he added. ``I have a
message for the judges who convicted me: You have restricted the freedom
of speech of millions of Dutch and hence convicted everyone. No one
trusts you anymore.''

Peter Kanne, a pollster with I\&O Research, an independent Dutch polling
organization, said the most recent data, released on Nov. 25, indicated
that the Party for Freedom had gained support and was currently about
even with the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, the leading
party.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/03/13/world/00wilders-video/00wilders-video-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``A lot of people mentioned that they're really getting angry that he is
being accused and judged only for what he said,'' Mr. Kanne said. ``They
think that he said something that is true, and they're very angry that a
politician cannot say that in a society where there is freedom of
speech.''

After Mr. Wilders's comments about Moroccans in 2014, more than 6,400
Dutch citizens filed complaints against him at local police offices. Of
those complaints, 41 became individual claimants in the criminal trial,
asking for up to €500 in ``immaterial damages'' per person. None will
receive compensation from Mr. Wilders in the case, the panel ruled.

Michiel Pestman, a lawyer representing some of the claimants, said that
his clients were ``happy with the results'' but added that it was rare
for criminal courts in the Netherlands to convict someone without
imposing a penalty.

``It's a bit weird,'' he said, but ``the principled nature of the
decision is more important than the compensation.''

He added, ``The judge has ruled for the first time in the Netherlands
that there are limits to what even a politician can say.''

Just before the official court proceedings began on Oct. 31, Mr. Wilders
said on his blog that he would boycott what he called ``a travesty''
against freedom of speech, but he changed his mind and testified during
the defense's closing arguments.

Regardless of the verdict, he said, ``no one will be able to silence
me.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
