Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}After `The Good
Fight,' Try `The Split'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EQtkXV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Ask a TV critic

\hypertarget{after-the-good-fight-try-the-split}{%
\section{After `The Good Fight,' Try `The
Split'}\label{after-the-good-fight-try-the-split}}

Our television critic answers your questions and offers guidance on what
to watch next.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/09/arts/09Ask-watching1/merlin_148944999_050e9c93-e02d-4675-8331-db3e3315b60f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margaret-lyons}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-margaret-lyons/author-margaret-lyons-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margaret-lyons}{Margaret
Lyons}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020, 10:00 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{What comes after ``The Good Fight''? ---~Douglas}

What indeed! One of the things that makes
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/recommendations/the-good-wifehttps://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-good-fight-tv-recaps}{The
Good Fight}'' so singular is its sense of imagination and ambition, a
willingness to take big swings; there just aren't that many shows that
are going for it in the same way.

I'm going to assume you started with
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/recommendations/the-good-wife}{The
Good Wife},'' from which ``The Good Fight'' was spun off, but I
encourage you to watch it again. Bingeing ``Good Wife,'' which I had
previously watched week-to-week, highlighted how subtle and specific the
show is --- all these small changes and tiny shifts that I only noticed
up close, like how Will and Diane prioritize or don't prioritize the
other's approval via quick glances in a meeting.

For another lawyer show that strikes that classy-but-horny balance, try
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/titles/the-split}{The
Split},'' a British drama about a family of divorce lawyers who go
through breakups and shake-ups themselves. The show is serious and
meaty, with maybe less flair than ``The Good Fight'' but a little more
intimacy. (Season 1 is streaming on
\href{https://www.hulu.com/series/the-split-5d1de53d-d263-48b9-b44c-75410ef9b9f4}{Hulu}.)

If you want something equally polished and simmering with rage, but less
about the law and more about business, watch
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/succession}{Succession}.''
(It's streaming on \href{https://www.hbo.com/succession}{HBO}.) Brian
Cox stars as the patriarch of a media empire, and his adult children are
smart and vicious and hungrily unloved. Characters on ``The Good Fight''
and ``Succession'' are obsessed with reputation, though that obsession
leads them down different paths, and they understand their legacies in
different ways --- is work your family, or is your family work?

In a different vein, there's
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/14/arts/television/review-in-goliath-billy-bob-thornton-plays-a-down-and-out-david.html}{Goliath},''
starring Billy Bob Thornton as a craggy genius lawyer. The show loves
seediness and revels in the dirtbag aspects of California, but it has
robust legal maneuvers and terrifically vivid characters, though I'll
warn you that it loses some potency as the seasons go on. ``The Good
Fight'' and ``Goliath'' have a similar stylish confidence, the swagger
of grown-up shows for grown-up people.

\textbf{A friend and I (she's in Seattle; I'm in Los Angeles) have had a
weekly Netflix viewing party going for about two months now where we
chat online while watching something. We tend to gravitate toward darker
true crime/cult documentary material (``Wild Wild Country,'' ``The
Staircase,'' ``Filthy Rich,'' ``Holy Hell,'' ``Fyre'') as the commentary
flows pretty~naturally with those. In a deviation from our usual genre,
we just started ``\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/80203144}{The Last
Dance.}'' Any suggestions on series or documentaries that would make for
a good viewing party? --- Amani}

If you're part of an ESPN+ household, watch
``\href{http://www.espn.com/30for30/ojsimpsonmadeinamerica/}{O.J.: Made
in America},'' which is among the best TV documentaries of all time
---~fascinating and deep, true crime but not lurid. You can also find
tremendous joy and options from the
``\href{https://www.espn.com/espnplus/series/0514c1ad-efd1-4d3a-ad82-41ca579a94a2/30-for-30}{30
for 30}'' library, which are all sports documentaries and are all at
least decent; some are truly excellent. In terms of chitchat potential,
start with
``\href{http://www.espn.com/30for30/film/_/page/9.79}{9.79*},'' which is
about the men's 100-meter finals at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. Prepare to
use the OMG eyes emoji a lot as you learn about steroid use and the
various open secrets of the era.

For something with more of the cult-y ``wow, everyone sure is tolerating
a lot of bad behavior from the leader of this organization, who is also
exerting tremendous control over everyone's lives, and at some point
will everyone realize the purported benefits of participating in this
group are small compared to the day-in-day-out emotional and physical
distress of enduring it?'' vibe, watch the first two seasons of the
junior college football documentary series
``\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/80091742}{Last Chance
U}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/arts/television/last-chance-u-season-5.html}{.}''
(The other three seasons are great, too, but have a different energy.
They're all on Netflix.)

If you want more stories of people buying into a collective delusion,
watch
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/18/arts/television/theranos-elizabeth-holmes.html}{The
Inventor: Out for Blood in Silicon Valley}'' (streaming on
\href{https://www.hbo.com/documentaries/the-inventor-out-for-blood-in-silicon-valley}{HBO}
and HBO Max), about the rise and fall of Elizabeth Holmes and her
company, Theranos. Come for the juicy, terrible behavior, stay for the
animation that reminds you, ``Oh yeah, that invention would also leave
you with a big old box of blood in your house.''

\textbf{After depleting most of what appeals to me from
American-produced content \ldots{} I fled to Australia (virtually, of
course). I absolutely loved
``\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/80118289}{Offspring}.'' I also
devoured ``Rosehaven,'' basically a slow show about a small hamlet
populated by quirky characters. Getting to know them through the seasons
was as satisfying as picking leaves off an artichoke to get to the
heart. Alas, now I am adrift in an empty sea. Anything to match these?
---~Michelle}

I also adore
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/titles/rosehaven}{Rosehaven}''
(on \href{https://www.sundancetv.com/shows/rosehaven--27554}{Sundance}),
and it reminds me a lot of
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/recommendations/please-like-me}{Please
Like Me},'' a similarly darling, small-scale series, this one about a
young gay man trying to start his adult life. (It's streaming on
\href{https://www.hulu.com/series/please-like-me-172a0482-c365-4225-935e-255d45314c52}{Hulu}.)

If you like plucky Australian heroines, watch
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/recommendations/miss-fishers-murder-mysteries}{Miss
Fisher's Murder Mysteries}'' (on
\href{https://acorn.tv/missfisher/}{Acorn}), a detective show set in
Melbourne in the 1920s. The costumes alone are reason to watch, and for
light procedurals and endearing romance, this is tough to beat. But if
you prefer your procedurals set in the present day, watch ``My Life Is
Murder,'' starring Lucy Lawless. (That's on
\href{https://acorn.tv/mylifeismurder/}{Acorn}.) It reminds me of
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/watching/recommendations/watching-tv-psych}{Psych}''
sort of, and has that kind of affection for its characters.

For something more grounded, try ``Tangle,'' a domestic suburban drama
from 2009. (Season 1 is streaming on
\href{https://www.amazon.com/Tangle/dp/B07TSB82WF}{Amazon Prime Video}).
If you like shows where backyard barbecues go awry, and couples gripe to
each other for a good long time before bed, watch this.

\emph{Series' availability on streaming platforms is subject to change,
and varies by country. Send in your questions to
\href{mailto:watching@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{watching@NYTimes.com}}.
Questions are edited for length and clarity.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
