Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}A Freelance Writer
Learns He Was Working for the Russians

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hZMhGs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-freelance-writer-learns-he-was-working-for-the-russians}{%
\section{A Freelance Writer Learns He Was Working for the
Russians}\label{a-freelance-writer-learns-he-was-working-for-the-russians}}

A man who had written for a site that officials say was a front for a
Russian group said his mysterious editor ``had a different kind of
agenda.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/business/02peacedata-writer/merlin_176501310_fabb8e3c-9d33-463f-a7e4-bece2db28029-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheera-frenkel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-sheera-frenkel/author-sheera-frenkel-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera
Frenkel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Colin Munro Wood was not shocked when he learned that federal
investigators believed the new website he had been writing for was a
facade for a Russian troll operation looking to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/us/politics/state-department-russian-disinformation.html}{sway
Americans} ahead of the November election.

It explained the strange emails and writing prompts he had been
receiving from his mysterious editor, an individual who admitted he was
not based in the United States but wanted to weigh in on the
presidential race.

``I just felt things were odd,'' Mr. Wood said. And when his editor made
it clear he didn't want him to criticize President Trump or support
Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee, he started to
figure out ``they had a different kind of agenda.''

Mr. Wood, a 50-year-old who lives in Binghamton, N.Y., and has been
writing for various online publications for years, was one of dozens of
American and British nationals who wrote for the site Peace Data. The
authorities said on Tuesday that it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/technology/facebook-russia-disinformation-election.html}{was
part of a covert operation run by the Kremlin-backed Internet Research
Agency}, which conducted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/17/technology/indictment-russian-tech-facebook.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{extensive
election meddling in 2016}.

The site, which presented itself as a recently created news
organization, represented a new front in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/10/us/politics/russia-hacking-disinformation-election.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{Russia's
efforts to sway American voters} ahead of the November elections. Some
American officials are worried about a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html}{broad
effort by Russian intelligence} to use fringe websites, spread
conspiracy theories and sow division in the United States. And
researchers believe the Peace Data site was an example of those efforts.

Facebook and Twitter said on Tuesday that they had removed a number of
social media accounts related to the site. The companies said they had
been alerted to the activity by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

But even as news reports emerged on Tuesday tying the Peace Data site to
the I.R.A., an editor for Peace Data wrote in an email to Mr. Wood that
the site was facing ``a coordinated attack on our website from numerous
media outlets. We deny these accusations.''

``We've published a short refutation and now are preparing a full
statement for our readers and authors,'' wrote Ionatan Lupul, who in
previous emails had identified himself as the managing editor of Peace
Data. ``It seems like it's impossible for an independent media to exist
in today's reality.''

The LinkedIn and Twitter accounts for Peace Data and Mr. Lupul have been
removed by the companies. Peace Data did not respond to a request for
comment.

Mr. Wood said he approached the Peace Data editors in June after seeing
a link on their website commissioning new writers. Other writers
answered job ads, or were contacted through blogs where they were
publishing their work. The site typically offered \$75 to \$200 for each
article. Writers were paid through electronic systems, though Mr. Wood
said he volunteered to write and was not paid.

The first article Mr. Wood wrote, which was focused on the top 1 percent
of American wealth, was his pitch and idea. But when he submitted the
story, he said, he was asked to cut significant portions, including one
section tying Mr. Trump to the economic elite.

``It was just a paragraph or two, not serious, but I wondered why they
wanted it cut,'' said Mr. Wood. He would go on to write two more
articles for the site, but lengthy email correspondence exchanged ahead
of those articles led him to become increasingly suspicious of the
editors and their intentions.

Many of the emails had obvious mistakes in grammar and strange syntax.
In one exchange, after Mr. Wood took offense at what one editor had
said, he was told that the editor was Romanian and didn't have a good
grasp of the English language.

Mr. Wood was troubled by the direction the editors were pushing. On Aug.
12, Mr. Wood suggested a story looking at the potential picks for vice
president on the Democratic Party slate, or the ``potential fall or
dissolving of the Republican Party.''

He was waved away from writing about the Republican Party or Mr. Trump
by a Peace Data editor who told him, ``As for my opinion on the
elections in America I don't see both candidates as something that will
benefit the country in the long run.''

``Elections in the US will always have a big impact on the whole world,
so from my perspective I would prefer Bernie Sanders as the President,''
the editor wrote.

Nathaniel Gleicher, Facebook's head of security, said the company was
not surprised to find Russians hiring unwitting Americans as part of
their influence operations. It was exactly what the company had
predicted when it found similar I.R.A. operations in Ghana, Nigeria and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/29/world/europe/ukraine-russia-election-tampering-propaganda.html}{Ukraine}.

``In each of the recent cases we've found, the I.R.A. is trying to get
someone else's voices to amplify for their purposes,'' said Mr.
Gleicher.

With two months left before the presidential election, Facebook expects
the I.R.A. to continue running similar operations, as well as trying a
last-minute ``information drop'' to influence American voters, Mr.
Gleicher added.

It is unclear how many people read the Peace Data articles. The I.R.A.
created 13 fake Facebook accounts and two pages dedicated to promoting
the site, Facebook said. The pages were followed by 14,000 people.

Mr. Wood said he was saddened but unsurprised that so many Americans had
been drawn into the Russian plot.

``Americans are so divided right now, I guess it makes sense to me that
they would want to turn us against each other,'' he said. Mr. Wood
stands behind the articles he wrote for the site, but he's upset to have
been used as pawn in a Russian plot to divide Americans.

Mr. Wood discovered that the site he had been working for was part of a
Russian-backed plot when he received an email from a reporter Tuesday
evening.

``I thought, well, now that explains things,'' said Mr. Wood. As of
Wednesday, no one had contacted him from Facebook, the F.B.I. or other
U.S. law enforcement agencies.

``I'm just confused --- you would have thought that they would want to
speak to me,'' Mr. Wood said. ``Instead, I'm just learning about it from
the news.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
