Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Trump Must Turn Over Tax
Returns to D.A., Judge Rules

\url{https://nyti.ms/3l1VyzA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-must-turn-over-tax-returns-to-da-judge-rules}{%
\section{Trump Must Turn Over Tax Returns to D.A., Judge
Rules}\label{trump-must-turn-over-tax-returns-to-da-judge-rules}}

A federal judge rejected the president's argument that a subpoena
seeking eight years of his tax returns was ``wildly overbroad.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/13/nyregion/00nytrumptaxes/00nytrumptaxes-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-benjamin-weiser/author-benjamin-weiser-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-william-k-rashbaum/author-william-k-rashbaum-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A federal judge on Thursday rejected President Trump's latest effort to
block the Manhattan district attorney from obtaining his tax returns,
roundly dismissing Mr. Trump's arguments that the prosecutor's grand
jury subpoena was ``wildly overbroad'' and issued in bad faith.

The ruling by Judge Victor Marrero of Federal District Court in
Manhattan marked another setback for the president in his yearlong fight
to block the subpoena.

The conflict has already reached the Supreme Court once and could end up
there again as Mr. Trump's lawyers quickly filed papers saying he would
appeal. The legal wrangling means an ultimate decision is unlikely
before the November presidential election.

The district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., a Democrat, has been seeking
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/16/nyregion/trump-tax-returns-cy-vance.html}{eight
years of Mr. Trump's personal and business returns and other financial
records} as part of an investigation into the president's business
practices.

The Supreme Court,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/trump-taxes-supreme-court.html?searchResultPosition=3}{in
a landmark decision last month}, denied Mr. Trump's initial argument
that a sitting president had immunity from criminal investigation. But
that ruling opened the door for the president to return to the lower
court in Manhattan and raise other objections to the subpoena.

Mr. Trump renewed his fight with an argument that the subpoena was
seeking information far beyond the jurisdiction of a local district
attorney. His lawyers also argued it was issued in a ``fit of pique,''
simply copying a subpoena issued by congressional Democrats who had been
frustrated in their efforts to obtain Mr. Trump's financial information.

But in his decision, Judge Marrero dismissed the president's new
objections, saying that the judicial process did not ``transform
automatically into an incidence of incapacitating harassment and ill
will merely because the proceedings potentially may implicate the
president.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The judge was appointed to the federal bench in 1999 by President Bill
Clinton.

Judge Marrero also agreed with prosecutors that throwing out the
subpoena would effectively shield the president and his associates from
an investigation, potentially allowing the statute of limitations to
expire on any potential crimes. That would give the president the
protection he had failed to win from the Supreme Court, the judge ruled.

``At its core, it amounts to absolute immunity through a back door,''
Judge Marrero wrote in his 103-page decision.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/20/us/marrero-decision.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/doc-77757-marrero-decision-promo/doc-77757-marrero-decision-promo-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{read-the-ruling}{%
\subsection{Read the ruling}\label{read-the-ruling}}

A federal judge rejected the president's argument that a subpoena
seeking eight years of his tax returns was ``wildly overbroad.''

Reacting to the judge's ruling, Mr. Trump told reporters in the Oval
Office, ``This is a continuation of the witch hunt, the greatest witch
hunt in history. There's never been anything like it.''

He added: ``We'll probably end up back in the Supreme Court.''

A spokesman for Mr. Vance declined to comment.

Soon after Judge Marrero's decision was released, William S. Consovoy, a
lawyer for the president, filed an emergency motion asking the judge to
bar Mazars USA, the president's accounting firm, from turning over Mr.
Trump's tax returns and other financial records to the prosecutors until
Mr. Trump can appeal.

It has been known that Mr. Vance was investigating whether any New York
State laws were broken when hush-money payments were made in the run-up
to the 2016 presidential election to two women who said that they had
affairs with Mr. Trump.

But Mr. Vance's office
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{suggested
recently in a court filing that its inquiry was broader}, also focusing
on potential bank and insurance fraud.

The prosecutors, defending their subpoena for Mr. Trump's records, cited
undisputed ``public reports of possibly extensive and protracted
criminal conduct at the Trump Organization.'' Mr. Vance's office made it
clear in court recently that it viewed the tax returns as central
evidence in its investigation.

The New York Times also has reported that Mr. Vance's office issued
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-deutsche-bank.html}{a
separate subpoena last year to the president's longtime lender, Deutsche
Bank}, seeking records that Mr. Trump and his company provided to the
bank when he sought loans. The bank complied with the request, The Times
reported, although there was no indication the bank's records included
Mr. Trump's tax returns.

Breaking with a 40-year presidential tradition, Mr. Trump has not
released his tax returns and has aggressively fought attempts to obtain
them.

His lawyers successfully sued to block efforts to gain access to his
returns and other financial records made by Democrats in Congress and
New York legislators. After Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/06/us/politics/california-trump-tax-returns.html?module=inline}{challenged
a California} law requiring presidential primary candidates to release
their tax returns, a
\href{https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2019-09-19/trump-tax-returns-federal-court-challenge-california}{federal
judge ruled in his favor}. But the arguments in those cases had been
made on narrower grounds.

Mr. Vance's subpoena for Mr. Trump's returns was first sent in August
2019 to Mazars USA.

The following month, Mr. Trump filed suit in Federal District Court in
Manhattan, where he made his initial argument about immunity.

Judge Marrero, in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/07/nyregion/trump-taxes-lawsuit-vance.html?searchResultPosition=6}{a
decision last October, rejected that position}, calling the argument
that Mr. Trump was immune from criminal investigation ``repugnant to the
nation's governmental structure and constitutional values.''

In that ruling, Judge Marrero also said that barring more evidence from
the president, he did not believe the district attorney was acting in
bad faith.

Eventually, the case reached the Supreme Court, which last month ruled
against Mr. Trump by a vote of 7 to 2. ``No citizen, not even the
president, is categorically above the common duty to produce evidence
when called upon in a criminal proceeding,'' Chief Justice John G.
Roberts Jr. wrote for the majority.

Chief Justice Roberts said, however, that Mr. Trump still could raise
objections to the scope and relevance of the subpoena,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html?searchResultPosition=3}{which
resulted in the president's new arguments before Judge Marrero}.

``The Mazars subpoena is so sweeping,'' Mr. Trump's lawyers told Judge
Marrero in court papers last month, ``that it amounts to an unguided and
unlawful fishing expedition into the president's personal financial and
business dealings.''

Mr. Vance's office repeatedly accused the president of using delay
tactics to keep from having to comply with a lawful subpoena.

Even if Mr. Vance were to obtain the tax records, they would be covered
by grand jury secrecy rules and would most likely not become public. The
records might surface in public only if charges were later filed and the
records were introduced as evidence in a trial.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
