Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}New York Will Allow Voters
to Cast Mail-In Ballots

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Qekohe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{new-york-will-allow-voters-to-cast-mail-in-ballots}{%
\section{New York Will Allow Voters to Cast Mail-In
Ballots}\label{new-york-will-allow-voters-to-cast-mail-in-ballots}}

The state's uneven handling of its primary has raised doubts about its
ability to process more than five million mail-in ballots that are
expected in November.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/nyregion/20nyelections/merlin_174640608_2e771cec-b5f5-4a21-a124-ecb9c76bd2b7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luis-ferre-sadurni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/22/multimedia/author-luis-ferre-sadurni/author-luis-ferre-sadurni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luis-ferre-sadurni}{Luis
Ferré-Sadurní}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

New York State will allow most voters to cast their ballots by mail in
the November general election, joining
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{a
growing list of states} that have expanded mail-in voting to address the
potential spread of the coronavirus at polling places.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat,
\href{https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/bills/2019/s8015}{signed a
bill} on Thursday allowing voters to request an absentee ballot if they
cannot show up at a polling location because of the risk of contracting
or spreading an illness, effectively permitting the state's more than
\href{https://www.elections.ny.gov/NYSBOE/enrollment/county/county_feb19.pdf}{12
million registered voters} to vote by mail.

But with only 10 weeks until Election Day, the challenges of
administering an election predominantly by mail will be especially
pronounced in New York, following the state's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/17/nyregion/election-absentee-ballots-primary.html}{uneven
handling} of its primary just two months ago.

Nearly 40 percent of voters cast mail-in ballots in the state's June 23
primary --- when an executive order authorized wider use of voting by
mail --- compared with as few as 4 percent in previous elections. The
surge overwhelmed election officials and resulted in a weekslong delay
for results in many races.

The problems in New York were repeatedly cited by President Trump, who
has sought to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html}{undermine
mail-in voting}, which he has falsely disparaged as rife with fraud ---
even as legitimate concerns mount over the Postal Service's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/postal-service-voting.html}{ability
to handle large numbers of ballots}.

Election officials
\href{https://twitter.com/luisferre/status/1293216219550679041}{are
anticipating} more than five million absentee ballots in the Nov. 3
presidential election, or four times the total number of mail-in ballots
received in the June primary, raising the specter that final tallies
will not be known for weeks.

``I don't think it's realistic to think you'll have a quick count this
November,'' Peter S. Kosinski, co-chairman of the New York State Board
of Elections, warned during a state legislative hearing last week.

State officials are weighing several changes to election laws and
procedures: Mr. Cuomo signed another bill on Thursday that will allow
voters to apply earlier for a mail-in ballot. Officials are also
developing an online mechanism to apply for mail-in ballots, and changes
are being envisioned to reduce the number of rejected ballots, a
troubling issue in the June primary.

The \href{https://www.elections.ny.gov/votingdeadlines.html}{deadline to
apply} for a mail-in ballot by mail is Oct. 27, although officials are
urging voters not to wait until the last minute. Ballots need to be
postmarked by Election Day. To lessen the expected influx of mail-in
ballots, officials are encouraging voters to cast their ballots in
person at
\href{https://newyork.cbslocal.com/2020/08/19/nyc-early-voting/}{early
polling sites}, which open statewide on Oct. 24 and don't require any
advance application.

Election officials will nonetheless face an uphill battle to regain the
confidence of voters who encountered obstacles in their attempt to vote
by mail during the primaries.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In June, election boards received a record-setting number of requests
for absentee ballots, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/nyregion/nyc-mail-ballots-voting.html}{led
to huge backlogs} that resulted in many thousands of voters not
receiving their ballots in time to vote. Many reported not receiving a
ballot at all.

Voters in New York City returned more than 400,000 mail ballots, more
than 10 times the number of absentee ballots received in recent
elections. But the sheer number of ballots to be counted led to
interminable waits, including in closely contested congressional primary
contests that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/nyregion/maloney-torres-ny-congressional-races.html}{were
called six weeks after voters cast their ballots}.

The counting process itself was plagued with troubles: More than 80,000
absentee ballots in the city
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/08/05/84000-mail-in-ballots-disqualified-in-nyc-primary-election/}{were
deemed invalid because of technical flaws}, meaning that nearly
one-fifth of voters who voted by mail were effectively disenfranchised.
Many were disqualified because voters failed to sign the ballot
envelope, for example, while others were rejected because of a missing
postmark or because they were improperly sealed.

The large number of disqualified ballots in the Democratic primary
between Representative Carolyn B. Maloney and challenger Suraj Patel
prompted Mr. Patel and others to file a lawsuit, leading a federal judge
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/nyregion/nyc-congress-carolyn-maloney-ballots.html}{to
order that some disputed ballots be counted}.

One of the most perplexing conundrums during the June primary involved
more than 4,800 ballots in Brooklyn that were disqualified because the
Postal Service failed to postmark them --- a requisite for a ballot to
be counted if it's received after Election Day.

The Postal Service has vowed to correct the issues that led to the lack
of postmarks, but it has provided little explanation as to what exactly
went wrong.

In recent federal court testimony, Michael Calabrese, a manager at the
Postal
Service's\href{https://www.uspsoig.gov/document/new-york-morgan-processing-and-distribution-center-efficiency}{massive
Morgan processing plant} in Manhattan, conceded that postmarking was
``not a 100 percent process'' and that some ballots could have gotten
through unmarked.

A spokesman for the agency did not respond to multiple requests for
additional details of the mishap.

To partially address the issue, Mr. Cuomo signed a bill on Thursday that
allows an absentee ballot without a postmark to be counted if it is
received one day after Election Day.

``These actions will further break down barriers to democracy and will
make it easier for all New Yorkers to exercise their right to vote this
November,'' Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.

Until a wave of changes approved in 2019, New York
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/10/nyregion/voting-reform-election-ny.html}{had
been behind other states in adopting measures like early voting}, which
was underutilized during the June primary. More than 30 states allow
voters to mail in their ballots for any reason.

Absentee ballots will not be mailed automatically to voters in New York,
as will be the case
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/how-to-vote-by-mail-in-every-state-11597840923}{in
at least nine other states}, including New Jersey and California.
Instead, voters in New York will have to request a mail-in ballot
online, over the phone, in person or by mail.

There are other outstanding issues elections boards will have to grapple
with as November nears, including working more cohesively with the
Postal Service, which state election officials tend to note is not
subject to their oversight.

Postal Service officials have insisted they have the capacity to deliver
ballots to voters in a timely manner so long as election boards don't
mail ballots to voters too close to the general election. The agency
typically processes and delivers first-class mail, such as ballots,
within two to five days after it is received, even though it has
recommended voters mail their completed ballots at least one week before
the state's due date.

But in the June primary, the New York City Board of Elections,
overburdened by an influx of ballots, mailed out tens of thousands of
ballots to voters as late as the day before Election Day, increasing the
likelihood that those voters would not receive a ballot in time to vote.

``We met our legal mandate, but some of them got out right under the
wire,'' Michael Ryan, the executive director of the New York City Board
of Elections, acknowledged last week.

Election officials in New York are encouraging voters to apply for a
ballot online, as New York City and Erie County did in June, rather than
by mail, to expedite the process of mailing ballots to voters. The
state's Board of Elections is expected to unveil an online portal by the
end of the month.

To diminish the reliance on the Postal Service, some state lawmakers
\href{https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/bills/2019/s8902}{have
proposed} scattering secure drop boxes across the state where voters can
drop their ballots and have election officials directly collect them ---
an idea that is borrowed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/postal-service-voting.html}{from
other states}, but that Mr. Trump's campaign has forcefully opposed.

Some New York State election officials have argued that drop boxes could
be superfluous since voters already have the option of dropping off
their mail-in ballots at early voting sites and at polling places on
Election Day.

Following complaints that voters failed to sign the ballot envelope
because of confusing instructions on the envelope, the state Board of
Elections is currently redesigning the envelope to be clearer, according
to Douglas A. Kellner, co-chairman of the board.

State lawmakers recently passed legislation that would require election
boards to notify voters if their absentee ballot has a missing signature
and provide them with an opportunity to fix the error so their vote can
be counted. But Mr. Cuomo had not signed that bill as of Thursday.

Election officials have raised the alarm about a statewide shortage of
poll workers, most of whom are typically older and susceptible to the
virus. Mr. Ryan has implored the state and the city to make its work
force available, and has even floated the idea of recruiting public
university students.

State officials have also warned of the dire need for additional funding
after depleting almost all of the \$24 million allocated in federal and
state funds to administer elections this year.

Jesse McKinley contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
