Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Beto O'Rourke Drops Out of
the Presidential Race

\url{https://nyti.ms/2JDSbNZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{beto-orourke-drops-out-of-the-presidential-race}{%
\section{Beto O'Rourke Drops Out of the Presidential
Race}\label{beto-orourke-drops-out-of-the-presidential-race}}

The former Texas congressman, who energized Democrats in a Senate race
last year, began his White House run to great fanfare but failed to
build significant support.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/01/multimedia/01beto-outSUB/01beto-outSUB-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Former Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/beto-orourke.html}{Beto
O'Rourke} of Texas announced on Friday that he was dropping out of the
presidential race, ending a campaign in which he struggled for months to
recapture the energy of his insurgent 2018 Senate candidacy on a
national stage full of other big personalities and liberal champions.

Mr. O'Rourke made the decision to quit the race in the middle of this
week, on the eve of a gathering of Democratic presidential candidates in
Iowa, according to people familiar with his thinking. He is not expected
to run for any other office in 2020, despite persistent efforts by party
leaders and political donors to coax him into another bid for the
Senate.

His campaign has been under extreme financial strain, and Mr. O'Rourke's
advisers concluded that proceeding in the race might have meant making
deep cuts to his staff in order to pay for advertising and other
measures to compete in the early primary and caucus states.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Mr. O'Rourke confirmed his withdrawal in a
\href{https://medium.com/@BetoORourke/thank-you-b13458279468}{post on
Medium} and in an email message to his supporters. In that message, Mr.
O'Rourke said he was proud of championing issues like guns and climate
change but conceded that his campaign lacked ``the means to move forward
successfully.''

``My service to the country will not be as a candidate or as the
nominee,'' he said.

By leaving the race, Mr. O'Rourke completes the winding path from his
early status as a potential front-runner to his drastic decision over
the summer to reframe his candidacy as an activist crusader following
the mass shooting targeting Latinos in his home city of El Paso.

Since then, Mr. O'Rourke has campaigned doggedly on issues related to
guns and race, calling most notably for federal gun-control policies
that would require owners of assault-style weapons to surrender them to
the government. That's a far more aggressive stance than most Democratic
presidential candidates have endorsed.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

That last phase of his campaign has taken Mr. O'Rourke far beyond the
early-state circuit, and included visits with prison inmates in
California and an immigrant community in Mississippi. In
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/15/us/politics/beto-orourke-2020-trump.html}{an
August interview} following the El Paso massacre, Mr. O'Rourke said his
focus would be ``taking the fight to Donald Trump'' and ``being with
those who have been denigrated and demeaned.''

In recent weeks, he has also criticized other Democrats in newly
strident terms, declaring in September that Senator Chuck Schumer, the
New York Democrat and Senate minority leader, had accomplished
``absolutely nothing'' on gun control. Mr. Schumer, an architect of gun
control legislation in the 1990s, said he saw no support in the party
for Mr. O'Rourke's stance on requiring gun owners to surrender certain
firearms.

At a rally in Des Moines on Friday evening, Mr. O'Rourke told supporters
he made his decision ``so recently and so reluctantly.''

``We have to clearly see at this point that we do not now have the
means'' to continue, he said, adding: ``Though this is the end of this
campaign, we are right in the middle of this fight.''

In a hallway outside the venue of an Iowa Democrats dinner, where Mr.
O'Rourke had been scheduled to appear, a black-draped table for his
campaign was abandoned Friday night.

Passers-by helped themselves from the roll of ``Beto'' stickers sitting
on the table, near a cardboard box full of one-sheet guides to ``our
most common cheers.''

``So sad!'' a woman exclaimed as she walked by. ``It's so sad.''

Mr. O'Rourke entered the 2020 primary in the middle of March with the
aura of a celebrity, cheered by rank-and-file Democrats and admired by
no less a figure than former President Barack Obama for his near-miss
challenge to Senator Ted Cruz in the nation's largest red state. He
effectively unveiled his run for the White House in a cover story for
Vanity Fair in which he declared he was ``just born to be in it.''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/14/us/politics/beto-privilege.html}{He
later described} the cover, along with his choice of words, as a
mistake.

In the earliest days of his campaign, Mr. O'Rourke was a fund-raising
powerhouse, collecting more than \$6 million in his first day as a
candidate. But his fund-raising cratered almost immediately. He raised
more in his first 48 hours than in the following 100 days, and steadily
depleted his campaign treasury by spending more than he was taking in.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/15/us/democratic-q3-fundraising-promo-1571187889375/democratic-q3-fundraising-promo-1571187889375-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{whos-up-and-whos-down-in-2020-democratic-fund-raising}{%
\subsection{Who's Up and Who's Down in 2020 Democratic
Fund-Raising}\label{whos-up-and-whos-down-in-2020-democratic-fund-raising}}

Elizabeth Warren saw her fund-raising increase once again. Joseph R.
Biden Jr. brought in less money. Bernie Sanders remains strong. New
fund-raising numbers reveal the shifting financial fortunes of 2020
Democrats.

And despite the near-heroic status he achieved in the eyes of Democratic
voters as a daring challenger to a Republican they loathed --- Mr. Cruz
--- Mr. O'Rourke found it far more difficult to stand out from a crop of
presidential candidates that included other young orators, like Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} of South Bend, Ind., and determined progressives like Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts.

Mr. O'Rourke also came under harsh attack in a June debate from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/julian-castro.html}{Julián
Castro}, the former housing secretary and a fellow Texan, who blasted
Mr. O'Rourke from the left on immigration. Mr. O'Rourke, who was not an
especially strong debater in his Senate campaign, appeared badly caught
off guard.

To Mr. O'Rourke and his allies, it has been evident for some time that
he was confronting a vanishingly slim path forward. At the last
Democratic debate, a pair of Mr. O'Rourke's donors flew to Ohio to meet
with him about his campaign and the possibility of him quitting the race
to run for Senate in Texas against John Cornyn, who is up for
re-election. Mr. O'Rourke told them he was not running for Senate,
according to people familiar with the matter.

A spokesman to Mr. O'Rourke reiterated that stance on Friday.

``Beto will not be a candidate for U.S. Senate in Texas in 2020,'' said
Rob Friedlander, an aide to Mr. O'Rourke.

It is unclear whether Mr. O'Rourke's exit will have a significant impact
on the larger shape of the Democratic primary race. In a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{New
York Times/Siena College poll} released on Friday, Mr. O'Rourke was
supported by just 1 percent of likely Democratic caucusgoers in Iowa.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/democratic-debate-lineup.html}{He
had not yet met the thresholds} for participating in the upcoming
primary debates in November and December.

Mr. O'Rourke may find --- as other former candidates have done --- that
the good will of his fellow Democrats returns quickly once he is no
longer a competitor for the nomination. He is 47 years old, leaving him
plenty of time to consider a return to electoral politics. But in
\href{https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2019/10/15/beto-orourke-gun-debate-229849}{a
recent interview with Politico}, Mr. O'Rourke said that if he did not
prevail in the 2020 presidential primary he would not become a candidate
again.

``I cannot fathom a scenario where I would run for public office again
if I'm not the nominee,'' Mr. O'Rourke said last month.

Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting from New York and Matt
Flegenheimer and Katie Glueck from Des Moines, Iowa.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
