Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}After Dismissing Coronavirus
Surge, Trump Wants to Talk About the Virus Again

\url{https://nyti.ms/30r6vRI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-dismissing-coronavirus-surge-trump-wants-to-talk-about-the-virus-again}{%
\section{After Dismissing Coronavirus Surge, Trump Wants to Talk About
the Virus
Again}\label{after-dismissing-coronavirus-surge-trump-wants-to-talk-about-the-virus-again}}

The president said he would resume the pandemic briefings that he called
off in April, a tacit acknowledgment that the public health crisis he
had hoped to put behind him was still ravaging much of the country.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/20/us/politics/20dc-virus-trump/merlin_174765342_1a2b7997-af94-486b-a66f-b6ed97de96bc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- By the time he canceled the show midseason, even
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/politics/trump-florida-convention.html}{President
Trump} had grown weary of his televised
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/arts/television/trump-briefings.html}{coronavirus
briefings}. Angry at the reviews, he declared the briefings
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1254168730898173953}{not
worth the time \& effort,''} a conclusion shared by his own advisers and
allies who had come to see them as hurting more than helping.

But while the freewheeling sessions with their cascades of
misinformation and petty outbursts
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/09/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-press-briefing.html}{had
become self-destructive}, nothing else has taken their place as a way
for Mr. Trump to get his message out given his lack of success reviving
his favorite campaign rallies. And so, the president said on Monday that
he was bringing back the virus briefings nearly two months after calling
them off.

The decision to resume the briefings amounts to a tacit acknowledgment
that the public health crisis that Mr. Trump has sought to put behind
him is still ravaging much of the country as he heads toward a fall
election season trailing badly in the polls.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{With
new infections, hospitalizations and now deaths on the rise}, especially
in the South and West, it has become increasingly difficult for the
president to simply shrug off the outbreaks as mere ``embers'' that can
be easily smothered.

Even so, as he opted to focus renewed presidential time to discussing
the pandemic with the public again amid
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/19/us/politics/republicans-contradict-trump-coronavirus.html}{concern
from Republicans} that he was not taking it seriously enough, Mr. Trump,
a former reality television star, attributed the move not to the
increasing threat of the virus but to the fact that the briefings had
garnered high television ratings.

``I was doing them and we had a lot of people watching, record numbers
watching in the history of cable television. There's never been anything
like it,'' Mr. Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. ``It's a great
way to get information out to the public as to where we are with the
vaccines, with the therapeutics.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

He was right about the ratings --- his briefings were attracting an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/business/media/trump-coronavirus-briefings-ratings.html}{average
audience around 8.5 million}, or roughly the equivalent of the season
finale of ``The Bachelor'' --- and he said he would probably start again
on Tuesday at 5 p.m., the same hour as before because it would attract
viewers. ``We had a good slot,'' he said.

The briefings could in effect serve as a substitute for the campaign
rallies that Mr. Trump tried to restart. His first attempt fizzled when
he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html}{filled
only a third of an arena in Tulsa, Okla.}, and his second --- set for
Portsmouth, N.H. ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-nh-rally-postponed.html}{was
scrubbed amid concerns} that it too would not draw many people, although
the campaign cited the weather as the proximate reason for canceling.
That one was never rescheduled, even though the campaign said it would
be, nor have any other rallies been announced.

Mr. Trump's aides have grown increasingly uncertain about how to
communicate his message on the spread of the virus against the reality
of a president who has shown almost no ability to stay focused during
the course of scheduled events. For weeks, some Trump advisers have said
the White House needs to do more to brief the public on the rise in
hospitalizations and deaths.

But the idea of resuming the briefings became another dispute in the
eternal turf wars within the Trump team. Two of his closest advisers,
Jared Kushner and Hope Hicks, had been fine with the administration
conducting virus briefings so long as they were not at the White House
complex where Mr. Trump might want to join them. Mark Meadows, the White
House chief of staff, has preferred not drawing attention to the virus
at all.

But Kellyanne Conway, the president's counselor, publicly said that the
president's poll numbers were better when he was doing the briefings and
that she hoped he would again. Vice President Mike Pence's team has also
wanted him to do more, but the president's communications aides bristled
at the vice president appearing at them when they thought Mr. Trump
should be leading the effort. By the end of last week, Mr. Kushner and
Ms. Hicks were rethinking their concerns, according to people familiar
with the discussions.

``The pandemic is the No. 1 topic of conversation around family dinner
tables and Zoom conversations, so the president is smart to ensure his
message is getting into those discussions,'' said Cliff Sims, a former
White House media aide under Mr. Trump. ``If we learned anything during
the 2016 campaign and in the White House, it's that he's always his own
best messenger and our ability to shape the debate is always bolstered
by having him out front.''

But Democrats scoffed at the notion that the president would handle the
briefings any better this time around. ``It's pretty clear that the
resumption of briefings is more about Trump feeding his own ego, in an
absence of other forums, and sharing his own distorted version of
history directly with his base than it is about sharing fact-based
updates with the American public,'' said Jen Psaki, a White House
communications director under President Barack Obama.

The original coronavirus briefings from March to April were
made-for-television events, with scientific information provided by
public health experts often overshadowed by a confrontational president
castigating governors, lawmakers, China, reporters and others he deemed
insufficiently grateful to him for his leadership. He used them to
defend his administration's response to the virus and to promote a pet
drug as a possible treatment over the advice of his own experts.

Mr. Trump eventually
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-briefings.html}{quit
holding them} after he was widely mocked for suggesting that people
might be able to counter the virus
by\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/politics/trump-inject-disinfectant-bleach-coronavirus.html}{ingesting
or injecting disinfectants like bleach}, an offhand comment that sent
public health agencies scrambling to warn the public not to try such an
approach because it could be fatal.

But in recent weeks, the surge of cases has frustrated Mr. Trump's
effort to play down the seriousness of the continuing pandemic. The
United States now records more than twice as many cases each day as it
did during the height of the daily briefings, and the number of deaths,
which had fallen substantially, has begun to rise again as well.

White House officials have said in recent days both that the president
is
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-defends-bungled-handling-of-coronavirus-with-falsehoods-and-dubious-claims/2020/07/19/1b57cb3e-c9e6-11ea-91f1-28aca4d833a0_story.html}{too
busy to attend} coronavirus task force meetings and that he is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/19/us/politics/republicans-contradict-trump-coronavirus.html}{``working
around the clock''} on the virus. But even as hospitals fill up and
governors reverse decisions to reopen, Mr. Trump has continued to insist
that the virus would simply vanish on its own.

In his comments on Monday, he was a little less dismissive. ``Frankly, a
lot of the country is doing well --- a lot of the people don't say it,
as you understand,'' he said. ``But we've have had this big flare-up in
Florida, Texas, a couple of other places. And so I think what we're
going to do is I'll get involved and we'll start doing briefings.''

Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
