Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Joe Biden's
Vice-Presidential Pick: Who's in the Running?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YZXzCb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{joe-bidens-vice-presidential-pick-whos-in-the-running}{%
\section{Joe Biden's Vice-Presidential Pick: Who's in the
Running?}\label{joe-bidens-vice-presidential-pick-whos-in-the-running}}

Here are 13 women who have been under consideration by Mr. Biden, and
why each might be chosen --- and might not be.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/23/us/politics/oakImage-1592939437323/oakImage-1592939437323-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2020, 7:11 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2020/07/29/espanol/estados-unidos/biden-vicepresidente.html}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} says he will choose his vice-presidential nominee the week
of Aug. 3, and aides say the public announcement will come the week of
Aug. 10 --- ahead of the Democratic National Convention that begins the
following week.

Mr. Biden's search committee has completed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/joseph-biden-vice-president.html}{thorough
vetting reports on several candidates}, and his campaign has conducted
focus groups and polling to study the political strengths of the
finalists. And Mr. Biden intends to conduct in-person interviews with
the most serious contenders, though the exact circumstances are still
unclear because of concerns about the coronavirus.

Some of the best-known candidates, like Senators Elizabeth Warren and
Kamala Harris, remain strong contenders. But there have been intensive
lobbying efforts on behalf of several others who have risen in the
vetting process as potential consensus candidates who could have broad
appeal to Democrats and general-election swing voters.

Among those candidates are Susan Rice, the former national security
adviser; Representative Karen Bass of California, who is getting a big
boost from her colleagues in the House; and Senator Tammy Duckworth of
Illinois, an Iraq war combat veteran.

But it is tricky to game out the prospects of each candidate when the
decision is ultimately expected to be made by just one person, guided by
a distinctive sense of the vice presidency and a hunger for personal
chemistry with his running mate --- Mr. Biden.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Top contenders

\hypertarget{kamala-harris}{%
\subsection{Kamala Harris}\label{kamala-harris}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Senator from California since 2017; former presidential
candidate; served as district attorney in San Francisco and state
attorney general.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Harris, 55,
has long been seen as among the likeliest candidates to be chosen.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Proposed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/01/us/politics/cory-booker-kamala-harris-2020.html}{cutting
middle-class taxes}; recently advocated policing reform; pushed a Senate
bill to make lynching a federal crime; played a high-profile role in the
confirmation hearings of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Harris had a friendly relationship
with Biden before they competed in the 2020 primaries, and Harris knew
his late son, Beau, when they served as attorneys general. But Harris
also attacked Biden more harshly than any other Democrat in the 2020
race,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/31/us/politics/kamala-harris-biden-busing.html}{rebuking
him in the first televised debate} for having worked with segregationist
senators
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/15/us/politics/biden-busing.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{to
oppose school busing policies} in the 1970s.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Harris is among the best-known Black women in
American politics, with appeal to both moderates and liberals. But she
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-2020.html}{ran
an unsteady presidential campaign} last year and struggled with
questions about her law-enforcement record. The way she and her advisers
handled the 2020 primary left some in the Biden campaign with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{significant
reservations}.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I know that
conversation is taking place in the press and among the pundits, and I'm
honored to even be considered, if that's the case.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{elizabeth-warren}{%
\subsection{Elizabeth Warren}\label{elizabeth-warren}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Senator from Massachusetts since 2013; former presidential
candidate; former Harvard Law School professor and bankruptcy expert;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/21/us/politics/elizabeth-warren.html}{architect
of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau}.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Warren, 71,
has been among the strongest contenders to be Mr. Biden's running mate.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has long criticized wealth concentration and
corporate power; proposed plans to break up big companies, tax the
extremely rich and use proceeds to fund new social benefits; recently
called for investigations of how the Trump administration has
distributed economic stimulus money and pushed a measure to strip the
names of Confederate generals from military bases.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Warren and Biden have a relationship
of mutual respect, framed by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/22/us/politics/democrats-biden-warren-ticket.html}{significant
ideological differences}. When Biden was a senator and Warren a Harvard
professor, they clashed in a Senate hearing over bankruptcy regulation.
But when Biden was mulling a campaign for president in 2016, he met with
Warren privately and considered the idea of asking her to run with him.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Warren would bring sterling progressive
credentials and a forceful economic message to Biden's ticket. But she
does not represent racial or generational diversity, and her populist
record could unnerve some moderates.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I'm focused right now
on this crisis.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{tammy-duckworth}{%
\subsection{Tammy Duckworth}\label{tammy-duckworth}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Senator from Illinois since 2017; served two terms in the
House; former director of the Illinois Department of Veterans Affairs; a
retired Army lieutenant colonel and helicopter pilot who lost both legs
in combat while serving in Iraq.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Duckworth,
52, has been interviewed by the Biden team and she has been asked to
submit documents for vetting.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has been a prominent spokeswoman for her
party on national security and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/26/us/army-veteran-deported.html}{the
concerns of veterans} and military families; championed policies to
protect people with disabilities.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Duckworth does not have an especially
close relationship with Biden, but as vice president he backed her 2016
candidacy to unseat a Republican senator, Mark Kirk. Duckworth
introduced Biden's late son, Beau, as a speaker at the 2008 Democratic
National Convention.

\textbf{Pros and cons:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/09/us/politics/tammy-duckworth-birth.html}{Duckworth's
personal story} could be powerful in a presidential campaign; she would
be the first veteran on a national ticket since John McCain, and the
first female veteran ever. She is a less prominent voice on some of the
issues most central to the campaign, like policing and the economy.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I can push back
against Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/25/us/politics/tammy-duckworth-vice-president-joe-biden.html}{in
a way others can't}.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{susan-rice}{%
\subsection{Susan Rice}\label{susan-rice}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} National security adviser and ambassador to the United
Nations under President Obama.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Rice, 55,
has been among the candidates furthest along in the vetting process.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Closely identified with the Obama
administration's foreign policy breakthroughs, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/08/opinion/trump-iran-deal-foolish.html}{the
Iran nuclear deal} and the Paris climate agreement; recently
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/opinion/trump-military-washington-statehood.html}{called
for statehood} for Washington, D.C.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Rice served with Biden in the Obama
administration for eight years, and their working relationship dates
back to the 1990s when Rice was an assistant secretary of state and
Biden was on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Rice's international experience would leave
little doubt that she is ready for the most sensitive parts of the job.
But she has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/us/politics/susan-rice-biden-vice-president.html}{never
been a candidate} before and the learning curve of a national campaign
can be a steep one.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I'm humbled and
honored to be among the extremely accomplished women who are reportedly
being considered in that regard.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{karen-bass}{%
\subsection{Karen Bass}\label{karen-bass}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Representative from California since 2011; chair of the
Congressional Black Caucus; former speaker of the California State
Assembly.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Bass, 66,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/us/politics/karen-bass-joe-biden-vp.html}{joined
the process later} than some of the other candidates, but she has
emerged this summer as a top contender for the vice presidency.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has been a prominent figure in the House
debate over police reform; introduced legislation on public health,
student debt and foster care; leads a House subcommittee on Africa,
global health and human rights.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Bass and Biden do not have a deep
relationship, but they appeared together at several events when he was
vice president and Bass endorsed his candidacy in March.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Bass has a longer legislative record --- in
Washington and California --- than almost anyone else under
consideration. She has a rich political record that has involved
confronting civil unrest in Los Angeles and helping steer her state
through the Great Recession. But she is little-known nationally and is
only now receiving close scrutiny for aspects of her biography,
including making multiple visits to Cuba under Fidel Castro.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I'm willing to serve
my country in whatever way I am called upon.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{val-demings}{%
\subsection{Val Demings}\label{val-demings}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Representative from Florida since 2017;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/us/politics/who-is-val-demings.html}{served
as police chief} in Orlando after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/val-demings-biden-vp.html}{a long
career there} as an officer.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Demings, 63,
has been interviewed at length and vetted intensively by the Biden team.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has been an outspoken voice in the House on
issues related to gun control and law enforcement;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/15/us/politics/impeachment-briefing-meet-the-managers.html}{served
as an impeachment manager} in the Senate trial of President Trump.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Demings and Biden do not have a
longstanding relationship, but they campaigned together for Florida
Democrats during the 2018 elections.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Demings is a strong campaigner with a r√©sum√©
that matches the moment, and she comes from a crucial part of the
country's biggest swing state. But she has not been closely vetted by
the press and her experience in elected office is relatively brief.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I hope, regardless of
how it turns out, that when boys and girls and young men and women
around this nation hear my personal story and they've been told that
they can't make it for whatever reason, that they will be inspired.''

Getting a close look

\hypertarget{keisha-lance-bottoms}{%
\subsection{Keisha Lance Bottoms}\label{keisha-lance-bottoms}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Mayor of Atlanta since 2018; served two terms on the
Atlanta City Council.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Very seriously. Bottoms, 50,
has been interviewed by the Biden team and she has drawn even closer
review as her national profile has grown this summer.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Among the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/opinion/police-protests-atlanta-keisha-bottoms.html}{most
prominent city leaders} grappling with the coronavirus pandemic and
answering the calls for police reform and racial justice; quickly called
for the firing of the officer who fatally shot Rayshard Brooks and then
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/15/us/rayshard-brooks-keisha-bottoms-atlanta.html}{announced
new restrictions} on the use of force by police; made criminal justice
reform a major priority, including strictly limiting the use of cash
bail.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Bottoms was an early supporter of Mr.
Biden in the presidential race, serving as a fiercely loyal campaign
surrogate, even when he was down in the polls.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Bottoms has **** cut an impressive figure during
a national reckoning over race and policing, and she hails from a
crucial political battleground. But her short time in high office could
be an obstacle.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``It's going to be
important for Joe Biden to have a strong V.P. who can help him heal our
nation and lead our nation, and it's going to be important to have a
person beside him who can help him defeat Donald Trump.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{gretchen-whitmer}{%
\subsection{Gretchen Whitmer}\label{gretchen-whitmer}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Governor of Michigan since 2019; former Democratic leader
in the Michigan State Senate;
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/04/us/politics/gretchen-whitmer-state-of-the-union.html}{delivered
the Democratic response} to President Trump's State of the Union address
in February.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Somewhat seriously. Whitmer,
48, has acknowledged she has had contact with the Biden search team, but
seems like a less prominent candidate than she was in the spring.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Ran for governor on a platform of rebuilding
Michigan's broken roads, raising the minimum wage and investing in
education; has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/18/us/politics/gretchen-whitmer-michigan-protests.html}{grappled
with the coronavirus} pandemic reshaping her administration, putting
public health and budgetary challenges at the center of her agenda.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Whitmer has described herself as
having been friends with Biden for years, and he endorsed her campaign
for governor in 2018. She returned the favor before the Michigan
presidential primary in March.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Whitmer is a popular young leader from an
important swing state, who has played a major role in responding to the
coronavirus. But she would not bring racial diversity to the ticket and
she has faced Republican attacks at home for engaging in national
politics.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I am making a little
bit of time to stay connected to the campaign but the most important
thing that I have to do right now is be the governor of my home state.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{tammy-baldwin}{%
\subsection{Tammy Baldwin}\label{tammy-baldwin}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Senator from Wisconsin since 2013; served seven terms in
the House; the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/04/fashion/tammy-baldwin-on-the-edge-of-making-history.html}{first
openly gay person} to win a seat in the Senate.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Somewhat seriously. Baldwin,
58, has been interviewed by the Biden team and she is seen as a
politically safe choice for the job.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has championed universal health care for
decades and other changes to the health care system; has been an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/02/us/politics/senate-democrats-seek-to-outdo-trump-on-trade.html}{important
voice on trade} and manufacturing, and a critic of China's trade
practices.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Baldwin and Biden do not have a deep
relationship, but she served in the Senate during his second term as
vice president and they campaigned together in both the 2012 and 2018
elections, when Baldwin was on the ballot.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Baldwin would bring populist credentials and
local popularity that could help deliver Wisconsin's crucial Electoral
College votes to Biden. But Baldwin is relatively little known
nationally and many Democrats might object to an all-white ticket.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``If he were to ask me
to be his running mate, I certainly would.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{michelle-lujan-grisham}{%
\subsection{Michelle Lujan Grisham}\label{michelle-lujan-grisham}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Governor of New Mexico since 2019; served three terms in
Congress and was chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus; former
New Mexico secretary of health.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Pretty seriously. Lujan
Grisham, 60, is probably the top candidate among the governors and she
has been asked to submit documents for vetting.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Enacted sweeping clean-energy legislation and
a minimum wage hike as governor; pushed for major liberal priorities
like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/18/us/new-mexico-free-college-tuition.html}{free
public college}; now heavily focused on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/us/coronavirus-new-mexico.html}{containing
the coronavirus outbreak} and managing the damage of an economic
recession.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Lujan Grisham and Biden do not have a
close relationship. He endorsed her candidacy for governor in 2018.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Lujan Grisham appears to be the only Latina
candidate under consideration, with the potential to give Biden a boost
across the Southwest. She has a compelling story to tell about leading a
state through a national crisis, but she is a lower-profile leader than
many of the other candidates in the mix.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``What I hope the Biden
campaign continues to do is to look for not just a V.P. pick, but to be
really clear in building a cabinet and an agenda for America, that these
are folks who can run government.''

Unlikely to be chosen

\hypertarget{stacey-abrams}{%
\subsection{Stacey Abrams}\label{stacey-abrams}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Former Democratic leader in the Georgia House of
Representatives before narrowly losing a race for governor in 2018; the
leader of an advocacy group,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/13/us/politics/stacey-abrams-fair-fight-2020.html}{Fair
Fight Action}, focused on voting rights.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Not too seriously. Some
senior Democrats are supportive of Abrams, 46, but she does not seem to
be a priority for the Biden team right now.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has championed voting rights; advocated for
expanding health care at the state level during her time in the
legislature and worked with then-Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, on
criminal justice reform.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Abrams and Biden do not have a
longstanding relationship, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/21/us/politics/joe-biden-2020-election.html}{they
met privately last year} as Biden was weighing his decision to enter the
2020 race and his advisers were floating the idea of announcing a
running mate during the Democratic primaries.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Abrams is an agile political messenger with a
strong national following. But the highest office she has held is state
legislator, raising questions about her readiness.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I would be an
excellent running mate. I have the capacity to attract voters by
motivating typically ignored communities.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{maggie-hassan}{%
\subsection{Maggie Hassan}\label{maggie-hassan}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Senator from New Hampshire since 2017; served as governor
there from 2013 to 2017 and was previously the Democratic leader in the
New Hampshire State Senate.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Not too seriously. Hassan,
62, agreed to be vetted by the Biden team but it is not clear that her
candidacy moved much past that point.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has focused on health care and drug
addiction; as governor, expanded Medicaid at the state level, and in the
Senate, sponsored large-scale legislation
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/19/us/politics/trump-new-hampshire-opioid-plan.html}{addressing
the opioid crisis}.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Like most top Democrats in the crucial
primary state of New Hampshire, Hassan has known Biden for some time.
They are not especially close but he consistently praised her during
visits to the state last year.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Hassan has strong credentials as a governor and
senator from a state Hillary Clinton
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/09/us/politics/new-hampshire-senate-hassan-ayotte.html}{barely
won in 2016}. But she is barely known outside New Hampshire. If she were
elected vice president, a Republican governor would name her
replacement.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``I am not going to
comment about his process, whatever that may be. My focus each and every
day continues to be serving the people of NH in the US Senate.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{gina-raimondo}{%
\subsection{Gina Raimondo}\label{gina-raimondo}}

Image

\textbf{Bio:} Governor of Rhode Island since 2015; served as state
treasurer; former venture capital executive; was chair of the Democratic
Governors Association in 2019.

\textbf{How seriously is she being vetted?} Not too seriously. Raimondo,
49, has had some contact with the Biden team but she did not get as far
along in the process as others.

\textbf{Signature issues:} Has made economic development her central
cause, frequently pushing her party to adopt a more pointed message on
economic opportunity and job creation; overhauled the state's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/26/business/dealbook/rhode-island-averts-pension-disaster-without-raising-taxes.html}{unstable
public pension system}, a political victory that yielded lasting bad
blood with some labor unions.

\textbf{Relationship with Biden:} Raimondo and Biden are cut from the
same ideological cloth, and Biden has campaigned for her in the past.
But Raimondo
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/24/us/politics/michael-bloomberg-2020-presidency.html}{endorsed
a different moderate} in the Democratic primaries: Michael R. Bloomberg.

\textbf{Pros and cons:} Raimondo may be more closely aligned with Biden
in her political sensibilities than anyone else in the running. But she
is viewed with distrust by the left and some important Democratic labor
unions, and she is relatively untested as a national figure.

\textbf{On being considered for vice president:} ``Let me just say this.
I'm spending zero time on politics right now.''

WITHDREW

\hypertarget{amy-klobuchar}{%
\subsection{Amy Klobuchar}\label{amy-klobuchar}}

Image

The Minnesota senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/politics/amy-klobuchar-biden-vice-president.html}{announced
on June 18} that she had withdrawn from the search process, after
renewed scrutiny of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/politics/klobuchar-minneapolis-george-floyd.html}{her
record as a prosecutor} greatly diminished her chances.

When protests swept her home state after the killing of George Floyd,
Klobuchar found herself struggling to explain why she had not done more
to take on police misconduct as district attorney. Pulling out of the
V.P. search, Klobuchar said she urged Biden in a phone call to choose a
woman of color for the ticket.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
