Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Donald Trump's Far-Flung
Holdings Raise Potential for Conflicts of Interest

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ezVnNr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-far-flung-holdings-raise-potential-for-conflicts-of-interest}{%
\section{Donald Trump's Far-Flung Holdings Raise Potential for Conflicts
of
Interest}\label{donald-trumps-far-flung-holdings-raise-potential-for-conflicts-of-interest}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/15/us/15conflicts1/15conflicts1-articleInline-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/eric-lipton}{Eric Lipton} and
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/susanne-craig}{Susanne Craig}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 14, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Just a few blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue from the White
House sits the Trump International Hotel, one of the newest luxury
additions to President-elect Donald J. Trump's real estate empire, and
perhaps the most visible symbol of the ethical quandary he now
confronts.

The Trump International operates out of the
\href{https://www.nps.gov/opot/index.htm}{Old Post Office Building},
which the federal government owns. That means Mr. Trump will be
appointing \href{http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/101134}{the head} of
the General Services Administration, which manages the property, while
his children will be running a hotel that has tens of millions of
dollars in \href{http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/305477}{ties with the
agency}.

He also will oversee the National Labor Relations Board while it decides
union disputes involving any of his hotels. A week before the election,
the board ruled against Mr. Trump's hotel in a case in Las Vegas.

The layers of potential conflicts he faces are in many ways as complex
as his far-flung business empire, adding a heightened degree of
difficulty for Mr. Trump --- one of the wealthiest men to ever occupy
the White House --- in separating his official duties from his private
business affairs.

Further complicating matters are Mr. Trump's decision to
\href{https://www.greatagain.gov/news/president-elect-donald-j-trump-announces-new-implementation-phase-presidential-transition-team.html}{name
his children to his transition team}, and what is likely to be their
informal advisory role in his administration. His daughter Ivanka Trump
joined an official transition meeting on Thursday, the day before Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey was removed from his post leading the
effort.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/15/us/15conflicts2/15conflicts2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump has said he will eliminate ethical concerns by turning the
management of his company over to his children,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/15/us/politics/transcript-of-republican-presidential-debate.html}{an
arrangement he has referred to as a blind trust}.

But ethics lawyers --- both Republicans and Democrats --- say it is far
from blind because he would have knowledge of the assets in the trust
and be in contact with the people running it, making it unlike a
conventional blind trust controlled entirely by an independent party.

``To say that his children running his businesses is the equivalent of a
blind trust --- there is simply no credibility in that claim,'' said
\href{http://www.capdale.com/msanderson}{Matthew T. Sanderson}, a
Washington lawyer and Republican who has worked on the presidential
campaigns of John McCain, Rand Paul and Rick Perry. ``Yes, the American
public elected him knowing he has these assets, but unless he deals with
this properly there will just be a steady trickle of these
conflict-of-interest stories, and it could be a drag on his
presidency.''

Mr. Trump, as part of his bid for the White House,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/05/18/us/politics/trump-financial-disclosure.html}{released
information} about his financial holdings, which include more than a
dozen hotels and golf courses; commercial real estate space, including
Trump Tower and 40 Wall Street in New York; and marketing deals in the
United States and abroad. But it is unclear how much information was not
disclosed, in part because he declined to release even a summary of his
tax returns --- becoming the first presidential candidate not to do so
in 40 years.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, a close adviser to Mr. Trump, said on CNN's ``State
of the Union'' on Sunday that excluding Mr. Trump's family from a role
in his businesses ``would basically put his children out of work.'' The
public, Mr. Giuliani said, needs to trust Mr. Trump.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/08/20/us/elections/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/08/20/us/elections/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties-1471648028995/donald-trump-owns-and-owes-debt-properties-1471648028995-largeHorizontalJumbo.png}

\hypertarget{what-donald-j-trump-owns-and-owes}{%
\subsection{What Donald J. Trump Owns and
Owes}\label{what-donald-j-trump-owns-and-owes}}

The Republican presidential nominee has an interest in more than 30 U.S.
properties, roughly half of which have debt on them.

``You have to have some confidence in the integrity of the president,''
Mr. Giuliani said. ``The man is an enormously wealthy man. I don't think
there's any real fear or suspicion that he's seeking to enrich himself
by being president. If he wanted to enrich himself, he wouldn't have run
for president.''

Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the transition, declined to respond to
questions about possible conflicts of interest Mr. Trump might face as
president. ``The Trump Organization will respond accordingly,'' she
said.

A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump's company said in a statement that the Trump
Organization was already working to address possible conflicts.

``We are in the process of vetting various structures with the goal of
the immediate transfer of management of the Trump Organization and its
portfolio of businesses to Donald Jr., Ivanka and Eric Trump along with
a team of highly skilled executives,'' the statement said. ``This is a
top priority at the organization, and the structure that is ultimately
selected will comply with all applicable rules and regulations.''

Previous presidents have encountered questions about their financial
holdings. Lyndon B. Johnson, through his wife,
\href{https://books.google.com/books?id=K7YEteQuN3IC\&pg=PA88\&dq=\%22because+ktbc+was+purchased+in+his+wife\%27s+name\%22\&hl=en\&sa=X\&ved=0ahUKEwiKiJnm46jQAhWDRyYKHWY2DREQ6AEIHTAA\#v=onepage\&q=\%22because\%20ktbc\%20was\%20purchased\%20in\%20his\%20wife's\%20name\%22\&f=false}{continued
to have ownership of television stations} while he was president. George
Washington enlisted the Treasury Department to help find a runaway
slave. But presidents have often taken steps to prevent ethical
questions. George Bush put his stock holdings into
a\href{http://www.nytimes.com/1988/06/06/us/bush-easily-a-millionaire-but-the-growth-was-slow.html?pagewanted=all}{blind
trust after he was elected vice president}, and Jimmy Carter
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/1977/01/05/archives/texts-of-carter-statement-on-conflicts-of-interest-and-ethics.html}{turned
his peanut farm over to a blind trust} after he was elected.

Image

Mr. Trump's holdings include commercial real estate, including 40 Wall
Street, along with more than a dozen hotels and golf
courses.Credit...Benjamin Norman for The New York Times

As president, Mr. Trump will be exempt from a federal ethics rule that
prohibits government employees and members of Congress from taking
actions that could benefit their financial interests.

But the president still must comply with a law that requires annual
financial disclosures of his assets. The first will not be due until May
2018, although
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2009/05/15/president-obama-and-vice-president-bidens-personal-financial-disclosures-now-availab}{President
Obama filed one voluntarily during his first year in office}.

Experts said that even if Mr. Trump was exempt from some federal ethics
rules, the public will expect him to not use his office to benefit his
personal finances.

``He has campaigned on a platform of getting rid of corruption and that
Washington is broken and we need new, refreshing change,'' said
\href{http://www.commoncause.org/about/staff-directory/karen-hobert-flynn.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/}{Karen
Hobert Flynn}, president of Common Cause, a nonprofit that pushes for
accountability in government. ``As president, the American public
expects that Mr. Trump will be held to a higher standard.''

In a statement on Monday, the General Services Administration said that
the agency realized it must examine its Old Post Office lease with Mr.
Trump's family-owned business ``to allow a path to be put in place to
identify and address any potential conflict of interest.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2016/11/11/us/politics/what-trump-wants-to-change.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/what-trump-wants-to-change-1479009739985/what-trump-wants-to-change-1479009739985-largeHorizontalJumbo.png}

\hypertarget{20-things-donald-trump-said-he-wanted-to-get-rid-of-as-president}{%
\subsection{20 Things Donald Trump Said He Wanted to Get Rid of as
President}\label{20-things-donald-trump-said-he-wanted-to-get-rid-of-as-president}}

Some of the parts of the government that Mr. Trump promised to dismantle
if he was elected.

Also on Monday, Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland
and the ranking member of the Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, called for an inquiry into how Mr. Trump will handle these
potential conflicts.

``The American people have the right to know --- they ought to know ---
exactly whether decisions are possibly being made that would benefit
him, his family and his associates directly,'' Mr. Cummings said in an
interview.

The labor dispute in Nevada represents another potential complication.
The president \href{https://www.nlrb.gov/who-we-are/board}{appoints all
five members}of the National Labor Relations Board. But over the past
year, the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas has been in a battle with
the culinary workers union, at first challenging an effort by hotel
employees to unionize. The labor board ruled
\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/news/press/body/2016-07-28-NLRB-Board-Decision-ORDER-DENYING-REVIEW.pdf}{against
him in July}. Then the hotel, which Mr. Trump co-owns, refused to begin
negotiations with the new union, and the labor board again
\href{http://www.culinaryunion226.org/news/press/body/2016-11-03-NLRB-decision-and-order-re-TRUMP.pdf}{ruled
against it, in November}. Other labor disputes with employees are
pending.

``Will he as president of the United States of America use the power he
has to interfere --- given that he has a financial interest in the
outcome of these matters?'' said Bethany Khan, a spokeswoman for the
57,000-member Culinary Workers Union Local 226 of Nevada.

Perhaps most troubling for Mr. Trump, several ethics lawyers said, is a
relatively obscure provision of the Constitution, called the Emoluments
Clause, which
\href{https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/olc/opinions/1982/02/31/op-olc-v006-p0156.pdf}{prohibits
any government official} from taking payments or gifts from a foreign
government, or even from sharing in profits in a company that has
financial ties to a foreign government.

Image

Mr. Trump's hotel in Las Vegas, which has had cases before the National
Labor Relations Board.Credit...Todd Heisler/The New York Times

Mr. Trump has had business deals with foreign governments or individuals
with apparent ties to foreign governments, including multimillion-dollar
real estate arrangements in Azerbaijan and Uruguay. His children have
frequently traveled abroad to promote the Trump brand, making trips to
Canada, the United Arab Emirates and Scotland. Closer to home, the Bank
of China is a tenant in Trump Tower and is a lender for another building
in Midtown Manhattan where Mr. Trump has a significant partnership
interest.

``Doing business with a foreign corporation, be it in Azerbaijan, Turkey
or Russia, if is it owned in part or controlled by a foreign government
--- any benefit that would accrue to Mr. Trump could well be a violation
of the Emoluments Clause of the United States Constitution,'' said
\href{https://www.skadden.com/professionals/kenneth-gross}{Kenneth A.
Gross,} a political ethics and compliance lawyer in Washington.

There are also more general issues that could prove troubling. For
instance, Mr. Trump will nominate the Treasury secretary, yet he owes
hundreds of millions of dollars to banks, and he benefits from low
interest rates set by the Federal Reserve, an institution he has
criticized as political. The head of the Internal Revenue Service is
also appointed by the president, and the agency is currently auditing
Mr. Trump's taxes and sets tax policy that directly affects his
businesses.

But it is Mr. Trump's real estate and financial holdings that represent
the most sensitive ethical areas, the ethics lawyer said.

Mr. Trump's children are already deeply involved in the daily operations
of the Trump Organization. Ivanka is executive vice president for
development and acquisitions, and is in charge of domestic and global
expansion of the company's real estate interests. Ms. Trump also has her
own clothing, jewelry and footwear lines.

Even this week, Ms. Trump turned her appearance on Sunday on ``60
Minutes'' --- with her father --- into a marketing opportunity for her
line of jewelry, with one of her employees urging reporters to write
about the
\$\href{http://www.ivankatrumpfinejewelry.com/metropolis/copy-of-metropolis-diamond-bangle-1}{10,800
gold bangle bracelet} she wore during the interview.

Donald Jr. is also an executive vice president in the Trump
Organization, and the company's website says he directs new project
acquisition and development in regions ``from Eastern Europe to
Southeast Asia, the Middle East to South America, mainland China to the
United States.''

Eric is in charge of the Trump Organization's golf course collection.

``We'll be in New York and we'll take care of the business,'' Eric Trump
said in an interview with ``60 Minutes'' that was broadcast on Sunday.
``I think we're going to have a lot of fun doing it. And we're going to
make him very proud.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
