Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}India, Day 1: World's
Largest Coronavirus Lockdown Begins

\url{https://nyti.ms/33SdFzS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{india-day-1-worlds-largest-coronavirus-lockdown-begins}{%
\section{India, Day 1: World's Largest Coronavirus Lockdown
Begins}\label{india-day-1-worlds-largest-coronavirus-lockdown-begins}}

India's 1.3 billion people have been told to stay at home. For some, it
will mean starving. And an already fragile economy may collapse.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/25/world/25virus-india01/merlin_170943816_6ec1b69b-2a11-4296-aa8c-d40ed9a4df75-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karan-deep-singh}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/02/reader-center/author-karan-deep-singh/author-karan-deep-singh-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vindu-goel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-vindu-goel/author-vindu-goel-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/hari-kumar}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-hari-kumar/author-hari-kumar-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-jeffrey-gettleman/author-jeffrey-gettleman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karan-deep-singh}{Karan Deep Singh},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vindu-goel}{Vindu Goel},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/hari-kumar}{Hari Kumar} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{Jeffrey Gettleman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 25, 2020Updated April 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NEW DELHI --- India's economy was sputtering even before its leader
announced the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{world's
largest coronavirus lockdown}. Now the state-ordered paralysis of
virtually all commerce in the country has put millions of people out of
work and left many families struggling to eat.

On the first day of the nationwide 21-day shutdown of nearly all
services on Wednesday, the streets of Mumbai, India's largest metropolis
--- usually so busy it's known as
\href{https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/112973/maximum-city-by-suketu-mehta/}{Maximum
City} --- were silent. Shuttered shops, empty train tracks, closed
airports and idle factories all across the country were signs of the
economic impact of the social distancing that the Indian government said
was necessary to prevent new
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{coronavirus}
infections.

India has reported 606 coronavirus cases so far, but with the population
density so high and the public health system so weak, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi ordered the country's 1.3 billion residents to stay inside
to keep
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{India}
from sliding into a disaster that could potentially dwarf what China,
Italy, Spain, the United States and other countries have faced.

But Mr. Modi's effort to prevent the spread of the virus will lead to
its own calamitous damage.

\emph{{[}Analysis:}\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/02/world/asia/modi-india-press-media.html}{\emph{Under
Modi, India's press is not so free anymore}}\emph{.{]}}

Manual laborers have no work, farmers cannot tend fields, online
retailers and pharmacists have been harassed by overzealous police
officers. Countless people have been running out of cash.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/25/world/asia/15india-clip-promo/india-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

``The kind of devastation that is going to be faced by the bottom 50
percent of the workers in the informal sector is unimaginable,'' said
Jayati Ghosh, an economist and professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru
University in New Delhi.

In some places, police officers have staked out roads and highways,
stopping motorists and demanding to know why they were outside. Several
states have closed their borders, forcing cargo trucks to simply park by
the roadside.

Flipkart, the country's largest online retailer, found it so difficult
to move people and goods that it suspended delivery of everything except
food.

Grocery stores were allowed to remain open, and in the cities, crowds
swarmed and emptied the shelves. At an upscale market in New Delhi, one
man stuffed his Mercedes with groceries on Wednesday afternoon, jumped
behind the wheel and zoomed off --- wearing blue rubber dishwashing
gloves and a snorkeling mask.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The National Restaurant Association of India estimated that perhaps 20
percent of the 7.3 million restaurant workers will permanently lose
their jobs as employers go out of business. ``Many companies may not
survive this onslaught,'' said Anurag Katriar, the association's chief
executive and the owner of a chain of upscale eateries.

Harcharan Singh, a vendor in rural Punjab state who usually goes door to
door peddling everything from oranges to cauliflower, has had nothing to
sell for days. The big wholesale food markets he normally relies on have
all been closed.

``Our business is completely shut,'' he said. ``We need this money to
survive, get food for our families.''

Hundreds of millions of Indians are like Mr. Singh, with little or no
savings. Rickshaw drivers, for example, buy food for their families with
the money they make that day. Banned from the roads, many drivers don't
know how they will survive.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/25/world/25virus-india08/merlin_170936757_5eaf0ba2-9625-46b0-a8a5-52273a38746f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.bloombergquint.com/business/indias-21-day-lockdown-may-shave-off-2-percentage-points-off-gdp-growth}{Economists
at Barclays predicted} Wednesday that the lockdown would last a month
and shave two percentage points off India's anemic economic growth rate.
Although India is likely to escape a recession, Barclays said, such a
significant slowdown would mean rising joblessness in a country where
millions of young people enter the work force every year.

Mr. Modi acknowledged the trade-offs in a televised address on Tuesday
night, when he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/24/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{first
announced the nationwide lockdown}.

``No doubt this lockdown will entail an economic cost for the country,
but saving the life of each and every Indian is the first priority for
me,'' he said. ``If we are not able to manage the next 21 days, then
many families will be destroyed forever.''

Economists are urging the government to create a huge stimulus package
to blunt the effects of the lockdown.

India's government stores an enormous grain supply, which could quickly
be distributed to the poor, said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at
\href{https://www.crisil.com/en/home/about-us/our-offices.html\#}{CRISIL},
a Mumbai-based credit ratings agency.

Mr. Joshi also urged direct cash payments to individuals, and loans to
small and medium-size businesses. ``Give a clear signal that you will
help,'' he said.

The Modi administration is deliberating what kind of stimulus to offer,
and a plan is expected to be unveiled within days.

For now, people can only hunker down at home.

Image

Produce vendors on Wednesday at a market in New Delhi. Many Indians
reported having difficulty getting food amid confusion over the rules on
India's lockdown.Credit...Rebecca Conway for The New York Times

One chief minister, in Telangana state, in the center of the country,
threatened to issue
\href{https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-telangana-cm-announces-night-curfew-from-7-pm-to-6-am-817282.html}{``shoot
on sight''} orders if people did not take the lockdown seriously.

In the Andamans, Jagadishan, a taxi driver who uses only one name, has
been cooped up in his house in Port Blair, longing to ``walk past the
sea and smell fresh sea air.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``All shops are shut, not even groceries or chemists are open,'' he
said, which should not be the case, according to the government's rules.
``The uncertainty is killing me.''

The lockdown includes schools, offices, factories, parks, temples,
railways, even the airspace. To impose social distancing where people
are ordinarily squeezed together, exempted businesses and the
authorities are looking to devise solutions.

In the city of Meerut, the police began shaming people caught evading
the lockdown, forcing them to hold signs --- later posted on social
media --- stating they did not care about protecting society.

Outside Mother Dairy, a national milk cooperative,
\href{https://twitter.com/MotherDairyMilk/status/1242679065825488896}{shopkeepers
drew circles and squares} on the pavement using chalk to indicate where
people should stand and wait.

In Veergaon, a farming village in central Maharashtra state, a few
farmers were still tilling the fields. But many stayed indoors, in small
cramped houses with sheet metal roofs.

``They fear the disease,'' said Kapil Wagarhande, a villager.

During his address on Tuesday night, Mr. Modi spoke forcefully about the
dangers of social interaction and how Indians must make big, immediate
sacrifices. Mr. Modi remains widely popular in India. In many quarters,
what he says goes.

Image

Stranded passengers waiting for transportation at the general bus stand
in Jammu, India, on Wednesday.Credit...Jaipal Singh/EPA, via
Shutterstock

``Everybody appreciates the steps taken by Modi ji,'' said Kailash
Dhoot, a textile trader in Mr. Modi's home state of Gujarat, using a
term of respect. ``Of course people are facing problems like how to
spend the whole day. What do you do?''

Still, rumors and misinformation have led to the closure of essential
businesses and the harassment of citizens, outcomes that the government
likely did not intend.

Gaurav Gupta, chief operating officer of Zomato, one of the country's
largest restaurant delivery services, said his couriers had been turned
back and in some cases detained by the police, despite clear orders from
the government permitting such deliveries.

\href{https://twitter.com/Teensthack/status/1242697679450210307}{In a
video message}, Sandeep Nangia, president of a pharmacists' association
in New Delhi, said the police were ``raining sticks'' on pharmacists for
trying to do their jobs.

Doctors and airline employees have reported landlords forcibly evicting
them as
\href{https://qz.com/india/1824866/indian-doctors-fighting-coronavirus-now-face-social-stigma/}{``dirty''}
tenants.

Amrita Saha, an employee at IndiGo, India's largest airline, said her
neighbors in Kolkata were spreading rumors that she had the coronavirus
and harassing her mother, who lives with her.

``She cannot go to the market to buy groceries, because people are
refusing her, saying, `Your daughter has the corona and you might also
have it,''' Ms. Saha
\href{https://twitter.com/Zebaism/status/1242309348749172736}{said in a
recent video}, nearly in tears.

An association of doctors in New Delhi wrote to India's home minister,
Amit Shah, on Tuesday, urging the government to protect medical
personnel from home eviction.

``Many doctors are now stranded on the roads with all their luggage,''
the letter read.

Image

Waiting to get cooking gas in Mumbai.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York
Times

Karan Deep Singh, Hari Kumar and Jeffrey Gettleman reported from New
Delhi. Vindu Goel reported from Mumbai, India. Reporting was contributed
by Suhasini Raj, Kai Schultz, Shalini Venugopal and Sameer Yasir from
New Delhi.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
