Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/music}{Music}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/music}{Music}\textbar{}At Europe's Illegal Parties,
the Virus Is the Last Thing on Anyone's Mind

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PtjNbg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{at-europes-illegal-parties-the-virus-is-the-last-thing-on-anyones-mind}{%
\section{At Europe's Illegal Parties, the Virus Is the Last Thing on
Anyone's
Mind}\label{at-europes-illegal-parties-the-virus-is-the-last-thing-on-anyones-mind}}

Across the continent, crowds are flocking to events organized on social
media and messaging apps, despite risks and a backlash.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/arts/07illegal-parties1/07illegal-parties1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alex-marshall}{Alex
Marshall}, Thomas Rogers and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/constant-meheut}{Constant
MÃ©heut}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 7, 2020Updated 6:09 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Nightclubs around Europe are shut. But that doesn't mean the continent's
party people are staying home.

As coronavirus lockdowns are eased, illegal raves are growing in
popularity. Outdoor events for hundreds --- in some cases, thousands ---
organized via social media and messaging apps, are in full swing every
weekend, causing headaches for police forces and lawmakers, and stirring
public debate and news media panic.

Tom Wingfield, a senior lecturer at the Liverpool School of Tropical
Medicine, said in an email that there were no medical studies about the
coronavirus and outdoor parties, but that a likely lack of social
distancing posed risks for transmission. Throw in alcohol or drugs, and
those risks could be exacerbated, he said.

Some countries have tried bringing nightclubs back. In Switzerland, most
regions let venues reopen in June, provided they kept attendees' contact
details. (After many partygoers gave false information,
\href{https://www.bazonline.ch/jetzt-kommt-die-ausweispflicht-in-clubs-und-bars-529522681267}{I.D.
checks became mandatory in some areas}.) Clubs in Barcelona, Spain,
\href{https://english.elpais.com/society/2020-06-30/barcelonas-post-covid-club-scene-empty-dance-floors-and-face-masks.html}{reopened
at the end of June,}but
\href{https://elpais.com/sociedad/2020-07-23/espana-pone-coto-al-ocio-nocturno-para-contener-el-coronavirus.html}{shut
again a few weeks later} as the virus surged in the city.

In most countries, the idea of packed dance floors is too much to even
consider right now. Many nightclub operators fear they will be the last
businesses allowed to reopen.

Until then, thousands are partying in secret, despite the risk and the
backlash. Last weekend, Times reporters attended three events, in
Berlin, in London and near Paris. Here's what we saw.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{berlin-partying-is-a-huge-part-of-the-citys-identity}{%
\subsection{Berlin: `Partying is a huge part of the city's
identity'}\label{berlin-partying-is-a-huge-part-of-the-citys-identity}}

It was midnight on Saturday, and a rave in a field on the northeastern
outskirts of Berlin was just getting started. A D.J. in shorts stood
near turntables connected to a generator, playing a warm blend of house
music and techno. A tent selling beer had been set up nearby, and
multicolored lights had been affixed to the trees.

The crowd of about 200 people was getting bigger by the minute. Despite
the sign instructing partygoers to maintain a distance of at least 1.5
meters, about five feet, the dance area was packed, and nobody was
wearing a mask.

With the pandemic-mandated closure of Berlin's clubs stretching through
the summer, illegal parties like this one have sprung up to fill the
gap. Most are free to attend, and take place in isolated locations to
escape police scrutiny; many are advertised via Telegram, an encrypted
messaging app. To arrive at the party on Saturday, attendees had to
follow a map sent on the app and walk 15 minutes through an empty
industrial area from the nearest train stop.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/arts/07illegal-parties2/merlin_175244820_2187b541-4f90-4cc3-8e32-86ec55eb94b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Although the number of new coronavirus infections remains relatively low
in Germany,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{they
have begun to climb again in recent weeks}, and parties such as this
have become a point of contention in a broader debate about whether
young people are threatening the country's much-lauded success. The
parties' persistence has infuriated some public health officials and
politicians, and complicated attempts by the leaders of the city's club
scene to push for officially sanctioned events.

Some partygoers on Saturday argued that raves were a much-needed way to
blow off steam after a period of isolation, and pointed out that outdoor
events posed less risk. Berlin's coronavirus regulations allow for
gatherings in parks of up to 1,000 people, but only if social-distancing
measures are maintained and no alcohol is sold.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-07T23:47:10.032Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-232a7bee}{As
  the U.S. stimulus talks falter again, Trump's advisers say they would
  tell him to act on his own.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3f64a70a}{Cuomo
  says N.Y. schools can reopen in-person but leaves it up to districts
  to determine if, when and how.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-14e70066}{Thousands
  of cases went unreported in California when a computer server failed.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Standing between the beer tent and the packed dance area, Paul Evina-Ze,
32, an American caricaturist living in Berlin, said that ``partying is a
huge part of the city's identity, and you can't just expect people to
wait two years.'' He added that he was unconcerned about the virus. ``I
feel like if I were going to get it, it wouldn't affect me.''

Evina-Ze's girlfriend, Valta Klints, 25, said she believed the city
should lead the way in allowing raves under controlled conditions.
``Other people are looking to Berlin as an example,'' she said.

A public backlash against ravers in the city began in May, when
demonstrators gathered in boats on the city's major canal in support of
workers affected by club closures: The protest
\href{https://www.dw.com/en/berlin-police-break-up-floating-party-protest/a-53652185}{turned
into a waterborne party} of about 3,000 people, and drifted in front of
a hospital where Covid-19 patients were being treated.

Another wave of criticism came in late July, after police broke up
\href{https://www.dw.com/en/berlin-parties-during-pandemic/a-54357745}{a
rave with approximately 3,000 attendees in Hasenheide}, a city park.

The cover of this week's edition of Der Spiegel, the German
newsmagazine, features a picture of the Hasenheide party, with the
headline ``Are we too reckless?'' In
\href{https://magazin.spiegel.de/SP/2020/32/172270198/index.html}{an
interview in the magazine}, Karl Lauterbach, a federal lawmaker with the
center-left Social Democratic Party, said that people who attend the
raves and ignore distancing rules ``must be penalized with fines in the
hundreds of euros.''

The Berlin police have stepped up their presence in parks, and in
\href{https://www.rbb24.de/politik/thema/2020/coronavirus/beitraege_neu/2020/07/berlin-demos-querdenken711-illegale-parties-polizei-aufgebot.html}{a
radio interview with the public broadcaster RBB}, a spokesman for the
force said that officers would now intervene earlier, when parties were
first forming. But, he added, ``the police cannot replace people's
common sense.'' (Berlin's police department did not reply to an email
seeking comment for this article.)

Leading figures in the club scene and some politicians are calling for a
more proactive approach. The Club Commission, a trade body, has called
on district authorities to make public spaces available to party
organizers under conditions that ensure hygiene measures are maintained.

Lutz Leichsenring, the commission's spokesman, said by phone that the
Hasenheide party had ``stigmatized the club scene,'' but that the
persistence of the raves had also made it clear to politicians that
using police to shut them down wasn't going to solve the problem.

Uta Reichardt, 34, said at the party on Saturday that she supported the
Club Commission's approach, adding that she had been disappointed when
an outdoor rave she attended two weeks earlier had been shut down by the
police. Reichardt, an academic at the University of Iceland who was
visiting Berlin, said that allowing the events would be ``a sign to a
certain generation of people between 20 and 40 that their culture is
valued.''

``At the moment,'' she said, as she moved toward the dancing crowd, ``I
feel like tolerance is needed from all sides.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{near-paris-i-dont-give-a-damn}{%
\subsection{Near Paris: `I don't give a
damn'}\label{near-paris-i-dont-give-a-damn}}

In normal times, the forested shore of the Ãtang de la Haute Maison, a
pond about 12 miles east of Paris, is a coveted spot for fishermen on
the lookout for carp or pike.

But on Saturday night, a different crowd gathered in the woods by the
water: around 400 young people, moving to techno music that boomed from
loudspeakers as spotlights swept a dance floor.

The popularity of ``free parties,'' as the illegal events are known
here, has been surging in recent months. ``It's true, since the end of
the lockdown, we've seen many more people attending the free parties,''
said Julien FaÃ¹x, 26, a regular attendee of the events since before the
pandemic. He was dancing behind the D.J. on Saturday night, as a
skull-and-crossbones flag, hung between two trees, flapped above his
head.

The event, called The Piracy, had all the trappings of a legal party: A
dedicated Facebook page advertised a lineup of D.J.s, and tickets were
sold online.

The difference was that the location was only released by email less
than an hour before The Piracy began. It came with a warning to approach
the site quietly and not to tell anyone else where it was.

``It's all about the smooth conduct of the party,'' the email said. It
added that partygoers should bring masks and respect social-distancing
measures.

That turned out to be wishful thinking.

``People need that freedom to party,'' said Sarah Stalter, 21, a college
student from Switzerland, in France on vacation. Surrounding her were
hundreds of unmasked people, some crammed onto the dance floor in a
forest clearing while others sat to the side in groups, passing around
bottles of alcohol and joints.

``I don't give a damn,'' Stalter said, as she wiggled to the sound of
heavy techno beats. ``Of course this virus scares me, but I've got to
enjoy my twenties.''

FaÃ¹x, a firefighter who was involved in France's pandemic response, said
he had witnessed firsthand the coronavirus's devastating effects, and
that people ``may be taking the risk of infection far too lightly.''

But, he added, ``The desire to party is stronger than the disease.''

The proliferation of illegal parties poses a challenge for the local
authorities, which have wavered between strict repression and turning a
blind eye.

Image

An open-air party in Saint-Denis, north of Paris, on Aug.
1.~Credit...Geoffroy Van Der Hasselt/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

``The police just let it go until they change their mind,'' said Antoine
Calvino, the co-founder of SOCLE, a union of French rave organizers.
``It's completely random, and we'd like not to be in this gray area
anymore.''

Police recently
\href{https://www.leparisien.fr/societe/coronavirus-faute-de-boites-de-nuit-c-est-le-regne-des-free-parties-11-07-2020-8351358.php}{launched
a crackdown in the Bois de Vincennes}, Paris's largest public park,
where every weekend partygoers with flashlights could be seen wandering
the dirt paths on the lookout for raves in the woods.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
âº}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 6, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}{%
  \paragraph{Why are bars linked to
  outbreaks?}\label{why-are-bars-linked-to-outbreaks}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Think about a bar. Alcohol is flowing. It can be loud, but it's
    definitely intimate, and you often need to lean in close to hear
    your friend. And strangers have way, way fewer reservations about
    coming up to people in a bar. That's sort of the point of a bar.
    Feeling good and close to strangers. It's no surprise, then, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/us/coronavirus-bars.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bars
    have been linked to outbreaks in several states.}Louisiana health
    officials have tied
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/us/new-coronavirus-phase.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{at
    least 100 coronavirus cases} to bars in the Tigerland nightlife
    district in Baton Rouge. Minnesota has traced 328 recent cases to
    bars across the state.
    \href{https://www.boisestatepublicradio.org/post/bars-large-venues-close-ada-county-after-surge-coronavirus-prompts-rollback\#stream/0}{In
    Idaho}, health officials shut down bars in Ada County after
    reporting clusters of infections among young adults who had visited
    several bars in downtown Boise. Governors in
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/us/california-coronavirus-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{California},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/14/us/coronavirus-united-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Texas
    and Arizona}, where coronavirus cases are soaring, have ordered
    hundreds of newly reopened bars to shut down. Less than two weeks
    after Colorado's bars reopened at limited capacity, Gov. Jared Polis
    \href{https://www.denverpost.com/2020/06/30/colorado-bars-closed-coronavirus/}{ordered
    them to close}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The organizers of The Piracy had their sound system confiscated by the
police at a previous party, according to an announcement they posted on
Facebook in July. In an email exchange, a spokesman for the local police
in the city of Champs-sur-Marne, where Saturday's party took place, said
the force had not been notified of the event, and therefore hadn't
intervened.

``The police have other things to do than chasing young people listening
to music in the open air in the woods,'' said FrÃ©dÃ©ric Hocquard, a Paris
deputy mayor responsible for tourism and night life.

But Hocquard added that given the course the pandemic was taking ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
slow resurgence in France} has seen an average of about 1,300 cases per
day since the beginning of August --- it was likely to be months before
nightclubs could reopen, meaning that open-air parties were the only
option.

He added that Paris's City Council, in collaboration with SOCLE, was
working on a legal framework for the events and a charter to ensure
better health conditions.

``It's not just a summer thing,'' Hocquard said. ``A shift is taking
place.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{london-please-do-not-share}{%
\subsection{London: `PLEASE DO NOT
SHARE'}\label{london-please-do-not-share}}

Just after midnight last Friday, two young men stood on a street in the
Tottenham district, surrounded by brick warehouses, looking lost.

``Are you going to the rave?'' one man with a posh accent asked a
passer-by. He couldn't work out where it was, he added: The map he'd
been sent via WhatsApp was confusing.

The details of the party they were looking for had been sent to a group
on the messaging app a few hours before: To join, you had to submit a
social media account, so organizers could check you out. Advance tickets
were sold via PayPal.

Messages in the WhatsApp group included appeals for discretion. ``We are
protecting our community,'' read one. ``Don't share our infos to
anyone,'' it added.

``It's like a military operation,'' one of the plummy-voiced men said,
after finally deciphering the map. ``If people put half as much effort
into solving coronavirus, we'd all be out of it by now.''

Soon, after walking through an underpass, the thud-thud-thud of a kick
drum came into earshot and the two men walked up a path toward the
sound. After a quick bag search by security guards, they moved into a
woodland clearing, where about 300 people were dancing to house music,
the trees around them illuminated by green and purple lights.

Image

A party in Tottenham Marshes in North London on July 31.Credit...Alex
Marshall

The news outlet The Guardian has declared that Britain is now in the
midst of a
``\href{https://www.theguardian.com/music/2020/jun/30/off-their-heads-the-shocking-return-of-the-rave}{shocking
return of rave}.'' About 30 years ago, young people here created
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/10/arts/music/1988-acid-house-summer-of-love-oakenfold.html}{a
moral panic} when they began holding parties in secret locations, fueled
by ecstasy and acid house, a new type of dance music at the time.

Today, the moral panic is less about drugs and more about the
coronavirus, with fears that illegal parties could promote a second
wave. In June,
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-manchester-53062837}{6,000
people attended a party near Manchester}, in northern England, where a
woman was raped and several people were stabbed. Parties have been
taking place around Britain every weekend since, with fewer reports of
violence. But criticism from newspapers and politicians has been harsh.

Some party organizers have tried to respond to public concern:
``Covid-19 measure been taken,'' said a message in the WhatsApp group
about Friday's event. ``A station at the entry will be at your
disposition with facial mask and hydro alcoholic gel,'' it added. These
were not in evidence on arrival, and only a dozen or so attendees wore
masks. For most, the coronavirus seemed far from their minds.

Dancers were packed tightly in front of a D.J. In the middle of the
improvised dance floor, a tall man stood with his eyes closed, moving
his arms like a bird's wings, transported by the music. People chatted
to each other for a moment, then hugged, instant friends. Occasionally a
balloon drifted above the dance floor, filled with nitrous oxide, the
party's drug of choice.

One attendee, a 25-year-old architect who asked not to be named in case
he was thrown out of the WhatsApp group, said he'd been going to illegal
raves for a couple of years. ``Last year, it was smaller,'' he said.
``Everybody just wants to get out now, I suppose.''

Pubs and restaurants in Britain had reopened, he added, but no one in
authority was thinking about dance-music culture. He would have thought
twice about going to an indoor or boat party, he said, but outdoor ones
seemed fine.

As the night went on, more people arrived, even a man on crutches.
Someone climbed a tree at one point, and the music stopped while a
security guard ordered him down. That was the closest the event came to
an incident until, around 4 a.m., three police officers turned up,
shining flashlights across the crowd.

They left as quickly as they arrived, but their presence was enough to
send some home.

About 20 minutes later, the police returned --- 20 officers this time
--- and stood in the path to the clearing. One officer said they'd
agreed with the D.J. that he could keep playing until 4:30 a.m.

They wouldn't make any arrests unless the D.J. refused to stop, the
officer added. (The London police did not answer emailed queries about
the event and their strategy for dealing with illegal parties.)

The sun was rising when the clock struck 4:30, and the music did indeed
stop, before restarting for a final tune, an encore of sorts. Then
everyone quickly dispersed.

The next evening, the party's organizers sent a new map to the WhatsApp
group, with details of another party that night, and a plea: ``PLEASE DO
NOT SHARE.''

Alex Marshall reported from London, Thomas Rogers from Berlin and
Constant MÃ©heut from Champs-sur-Marne, France.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
