Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Coronavirus Layoff Surge
Overwhelms Unemployment Offices

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dc5yCl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb49f0-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb49f1-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb49f2-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb49f3-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/k-12-schools-reopening.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb49f4-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{State
  of Play for K-12}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f4eb7100-e108-11ea-b6ec-f55ad33de6c3}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-layoff-surge-overwhelms-unemployment-offices}{%
\section{Coronavirus Layoff Surge Overwhelms Unemployment
Offices}\label{coronavirus-layoff-surge-overwhelms-unemployment-offices}}

States are trying to beef up skeleton crews to handle a flood of jobless
claims while expanding workers' access to benefits.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/19/business/19virus-joblesscrush3/merlin_170648199_77cdc0b1-c443-4f70-8bda-310620e2e480-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tiffany-hsu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/06/multimedia/author-tiffany-hsu/author-tiffany-hsu-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tara-siegel-bernard}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/18/multimedia/author-tara-siegel-bernard/author-tara-siegel-bernard-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tiffany-hsu}{Tiffany Hsu}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tara-siegel-bernard}{Tara
Siegel Bernard}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 19, 2020Updated April 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The best place to get a job right now might be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/03/19/upshot/coronavirus-jobless-claims-states.html}{the
unemployment office}.

In Washington State, where the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/upshot/coronavirus-jobless-rate-great-depression.html}{coronavirus}
outbreak found its first foothold in the United States, officials are
trying to fill multiple positions processing jobless claims.

``Due to the temporary closure of some businesses here in Washington
State we are anticipating the need for additional staffing,'' according
to
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1784435892/?eBP=NotAvailableFromVoyagerAPI\&refId=5127803b-7fa9-4b25-b20c-df682ddc6057\&trk=d_flagship3_search_srp_jobs}{the
job posting}, which promises interviews next week.

It's only the start of what will be a hiring boom by these government
offices, which have been running on skeleton crews after years of
historically low
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/upshot/coronavirus-jobless-rate-great-depression.html}{unemployment}.
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1781957964/?eBP=NotAvailableFromVoyagerAPI\&refId=a42318c2-4f6f-4ec4-9d40-6d8e7c734cb3\&trk=d_flagship3_search_srp_jobs}{Illinois},
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1781925553/?eBP=NotAvailableFromVoyagerAPI\&refId=f4bff901-d957-4d06-b4e1-ffeb31a8d5fd\&trk=d_flagship3_search_srp_jobs}{Louisiana},
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1786824548/?eBP=NotAvailableFromVoyagerAPI\&refId=a42318c2-4f6f-4ec4-9d40-6d8e7c734cb3\&trk=d_flagship3_search_srp_jobs}{Massachusetts}
and
\href{https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1780250882/?eBP=NotAvailableFromVoyagerAPI\&refId=eb500c71-3647-4c52-a69a-4f6c5a6bcde1\&trk=d_flagship3_search_srp_jobs}{Nebraska}
have also posted openings. Texas said it was trying to add people, too.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/21/autossell/HEALTH-CORONAVIRUS_USA/HEALTH-CORONAVIRUS_USA-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

With the coronavirus pandemic triggering layoffs in industries from
restaurants to retail --- the Department of Labor said on Thursday that
\href{https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OPA/newsreleases/ui-claims/20200480.pdf}{claims
for jobless benefits surged 33 percent} last week --- states are about
to be inundated. And their unemployment offices, long hindered by
lumbering technology and bare-bones staffing, are already groaning under
the weight.

From
\href{https://twitter.com/faregametravel/status/1239968403537809411}{New
Jersey} to \href{http://texas}{Texas} to \href{http://oregon}{Oregon},
the newly jobless have tried to file claims, only to run into glitchy
websites and clogged phone lines.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#robinhood-a-stock-trading-app-is-valued-at-11-2-billion-in-its-latest-funding-round}{8h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#robinhood-a-stock-trading-app-is-valued-at-11-2-billion-in-its-latest-funding-round}{Robinhood,
a stock trading app, is valued at \$11.2 billion in its latest funding
round.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#new-unemployment-benefits-authorized-by-president-trump-wont-come-until-late-august}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#new-unemployment-benefits-authorized-by-president-trump-wont-come-until-late-august}{New
unemployment benefits authorized by President Trump won't come until
late August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#heres-what-you-need-to-know-for-the-week-ahead}{17h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#heres-what-you-need-to-know-for-the-week-ahead}{Here's
what you need to know for the week ahead.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/17/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Ryan Connolly was laid off by video chat on Tuesday from his job on a
software development project for \href{https://www.rdk.com/}{RDK Truck
Sales \& Service} in Tampa, Fla. Within a few hours, he was on the
county website trying to figure out unemployment benefits but couldn't
get past the first link. Every time he clicked, the loading wheel would
circle interminably.

``My heart just dropped, and I realized that I'm definitely not the only
one scrambling here,'' he said.

It was obvious the site was overwhelmed by the volume, said Mr.
Connolly, who is worried about his wife and two young daughters. They
were on his health insurance.

``As soon as I saw that, I realized that it was just going to be a
nightmare,'' he said.

He kept trying on Tuesday. It didn't get better. ``I've given up,'' he
said Wednesday.

Help is on the way. A stimulus bill that President Trump signed into law
on Wednesday provides \$1 billion in emergency grants to states for
unemployment insurance, and fully half could be immediately used to
strengthen staffing, technology and other administrative costs.

The need is urgent. In Colorado, the number of unemployment benefit
claims went from 400 on March 9 to 3,900 on Monday and then 10,000 on
Wednesday. In Connecticut, there were 2,500 claims last week, but more
than 40,000 from Friday evening until Wednesday evening. The
\href{https://twitter.com/GovMikeDeWine/status/1240352256152809473?s=20}{number
of requests in Ohio} jumped to 78,000 this week from 6,500 two weeks
ago.

Maryland said that its website and call centers were experiencing ``an
unprecedented volume'' of requests. The state's division of unemployment
insurance said it was extending its call center hours, working to
increase its network's bandwidth and asking claimants and employers to
email.

New York's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/16/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-update.html\#link-1c0b3898}{online
application system} crashed as it tried to accommodate a spike in volume
that resembled the surge after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. By noon on
Tuesday, the state labor department had received more than 21,000 calls,
compared with 2,000 a week earlier. Visits to its website more than
doubled. The department is now extending its hours and staggering filing
times alphabetically by last name.

Delta Vasquez, 22, spent several hours trying to slog through Oregon's
unemployment claims portal on Monday night after she was laid off from
her hosting position at Bamboo Sushi in Portland. She and her co-workers
got the news by email after the state moved to restrict bars and
restaurants to takeout and delivery.

Ms. Vasquez tried calling the unemployment office instead, but the line
rang and eventually disconnected without sending her to voice mail. She
tried online again, but the site was confusing --- it has operating
hours, and stops accepting new claims at 10 p.m. on weekdays.

Ms. Vasquez restarted the online claims process twice before managing to
fill out the necessary forms. ``If you're not working, you can't save
money,'' she said. ``The only resource is unemployment insurance.''

Even when unemployment was stable and low, state employment offices were
``threadbare,'' said Andrew Stettner, a senior fellow with the Century
Foundation, a public policy research group.

State unemployment insurance programs rely on federal grants to pay for
the administration of benefits, but those costs have been cut by 30
percent over the past two decades, he said.

Part of the reason for low staffing: Unemployment office head counts are
pegged to the unemployment rate, which had reached historic lows before
the pandemic hit.

Even in normal times, unemployment offices struggled with busy signals
and website problems, said Julia Simon-Mishel, a supervising attorney in
the unemployment compensation unit at Philadelphia Legal Assistance.
``So we expect there to be issues with the website and phone lines
across the country now.''

Further complicating matters are the outdated systems most offices use.
Pennsylvania is partway through a technology overhaul, but ``a lot of
states are still operating on their old mainframe computer systems that
are most likely not set up for remote access,'' Ms. Simon-Mishel said.

At the same time, some states are undertaking emergency measures to
expand and speed up workers' access to benefits.
\href{http://governor.mt.gov/pressroom/governor-bullock-announces-emergency-rules-to-streamline-unemployment-benefits-for-workers-impacted-by-covid-19}{Montana
officials said} that people forced by employers to stay home, or who are
quarantined or caring for a family member with coronavirus, can qualify
for benefits. Wisconsin, where
\href{https://dwd.wisconsin.gov/covid19/public/det.htm}{nearly half} of
job center locations are closed because of the outbreak,
\href{https://dwd.wisconsin.gov/news/2020/200317-emergency-order.htmhttps://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WIGOV/bulletins/281f868}{loosened
rules} that require claimants to actively search for work. Arkansas,
California, Virginia and other states have waived the waiting period
before workers can receive aid.

But that still requires applicants to get through the front door.

Desperate, many laid-off employees began requesting donations
and\href{https://twitter.com/Whatapityonyou/status/1239639173843136512?s=20}{posting
links} to their GoFundMe, Venmo and Cash accounts. The website for one
charity group was overrun with people hoping to apply for
its\href{https://www.usbgfoundation.org/beap}{bartender emergency
assistance program}.

Eilís Godfrey, 27, learned on Sunday night that the restaurant where she
worked as a server in Los Angeles was closing its doors. She and her
colleagues gathered in a back room, usually reserved for private
parties, to watch the city's mayor, Eric Garcetti, who ordered the
\href{https://twitter.com/MayorOfLA/status/1239387832554106881?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1239387832554106881\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fla.eater.com\%2F2020\%2F3\%2F15\%2F21180760\%2Flos-angeles-bar-restaurant-shutdown-order}{closing
of many businesses} and said dine-in service at restaurants must stop.
The spin studio where she worked the front desk also closed that night.

On Monday, Ms. Godfrey tried to apply for unemployment benefits, but
realized that she needed to gather her pay stubs, tax return and other
information. On Tuesday, she could no longer get access to California's
unemployment benefits site, and couldn't get through on the phone,
either.

So she went back to her computer, where, she said, she spent hours
``just refreshing the page.''

Patricia Cohen contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
