Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Parties and Covid-19 Outbreaks
Threaten University Reopenings in the U.S.

\url{https://nyti.ms/35et1B9}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d60-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d61-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d62-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d63-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d64-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=b3060d65-f1be-11ea-80a4-6f259d33a91b\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{parties-and-covid-19-outbreaks-threaten-university-reopenings-in-the-us}{%
\section{Parties and Covid-19 Outbreaks Threaten University Reopenings
in the
U.S.}\label{parties-and-covid-19-outbreaks-threaten-university-reopenings-in-the-us}}

Xi Jinping declared success in suppressing China's outbreak. South
Korea's young doctors returned to work after a strike. States and cities
in the U.S. are planning fiscal maneuvers in case Congress can't agree
on a fiscal relief package.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 7, 2020Updated Sept. 8, 2020, 5:42 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This briefing has ended. Read live coronavirus updates
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-71fba04f}{For reopened U.S. universities,
  parties and pushback are upending plans.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-adc17f7}{China's leader declares success in
  suppressing the country's outbreak.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-47c32b10}{On a holiday weekend in the U.S.,
  the virus continues its grinding hold on Americans' lives.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1b6abf8f}{South Korea's young doctors return
  to work after striking during an outbreak.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2448efdc}{With no federal relief in sight,
  cities and states in the U.S. are enacting major budget cuts.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-f62aa98}{As it battles a second wave, Spain
  reports more than half a million cases.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-5d176734}{Looking to buy a used car? So is
  everyone else.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/07virus-briefing-education/07virus-briefing-education-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{for-reopened-us-universities-parties-and-pushback-are-upending-plans}{%
\subsection{For reopened U.S. universities, parties and pushback are
upending
plans.}\label{for-reopened-us-universities-parties-and-pushback-are-upending-plans}}

As more U.S. universities and colleges try to reopen with in-person
instruction,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/06/us/colleges-coronavirus-students.html}{outbreaks},
student parties and pushback from instructors and students are
threatening their plans.

More than 51,000 cases have been reported at more than 1,000 campuses.
Some students have faced serious consequences for breaking the rules.
Northeastern University in Massachusetts dismissed 11 students last week
for violating safety precautions. New York University, Ohio State,
Purdue and West Virginia University have all suspended students over
violations of rules intended to curb the virus's spread on campus.

On Monday, W.V.U. said that it was moving all undergraduate courses
online through Sept. 25 at its Morgantown campus, following reports of
parties held over the Labor Day weekend that surfaced on social media.

Coronavirus testing at the university has found
\href{https://www.wvu.edu/return-to-campus/daily-test-results/morgantown\#daily-campus-testing}{a
growing number of cases}, including 112 new positive results between
Aug. 30 and Sept. 3. Against that backdrop, the reports of parties
prompted officials to take action. In a statement, the school's dean of
students, Corey Farris,
\href{https://wvutoday.wvu.edu/stories/2020/09/07/wvu-moves-undergraduate-classes-online-through-sept-25-on-morgantown-campus-reduces-in-person-activities}{asked
students who traveled home for the weekend} to stay there and not return
to campus yet.

Two of the parties that raised concern were held Friday and Saturday
nights by the school's Theta Chi fraternity chapter, in apparent
violation of orders from the university that members living in the
fraternity house isolate or quarantine themselves after one member
tested positive. The university announced on Saturday that 29 members of
the fraternity
\href{https://wvutoday.wvu.edu/stories/2020/09/06/wvu-suspends-29-students-for-covid-19-related-violations-additional-sanctions-pending}{had
been issued immediate interim suspensions}.

Another Theta Chi chapter, at the University of New Hampshire, was
placed under interim suspension over the weekend after 11 coronavirus
cases were linked to an Aug. 29 party attended by more than 100 people,
according to a
\href{https://www.unh.edu/president/president-dean-condemns-covid-cluster-theta-chi-fraternity}{letter
from the university's president, James Dean}, who called the party
``reprehensible.''

At the University of Michigan, a labor union representing
graduate-student instructors and assistants said it would go on strike
Tuesday over virus safety and other concerns.

The union, GEO, submitted a letter signed by 1,800 people to university
administrators calling for a ``safe and just pandemic response for
all,'' including the right to work remotely. The letter also demands
that the university sever its ties with the Ann Arbor Police Department
and ICE, arguing that the university's decision ``to expand the policing
of our community in a perverse effort to enforce social distancing''
would be harmful to mental health on campus.

Rick Fitzgerald, the university's assistant vice president for public
affairs, said that most of the union's demands were ``not appropriate''
now, and that a strike would violate state law as well as the union
contract. The university intended to hold classes in any event, he said.

A student group at the University of Kansas, where there are nearly 500
cases, is planning a ``strike'' to push the university to move to remote
learning,
\href{https://www.kansascity.com/news/coronavirus/article245534890.html}{The
Kansas City Star reported}; this follows a similar ``sickout'' last week
at the University of Iowa.

\hypertarget{chinas-leader-declares-success-in-suppressing-the-countrys-outbreak}{%
\subsection{China's leader declares success in suppressing the country's
outbreak.}\label{chinas-leader-declares-success-in-suppressing-the-countrys-outbreak}}

Image

President Xi Jinping of China delivers a speech about the coronavirus at
Beijing's Great Hall of the People on Tuesday.Credit...Wu Hong/EPA, via
Shutterstock

China's top leader, Xi Jinping, declared on Tuesday that the country's
success in suppressing its coronavirus outbreak was a vindication of
Communist Party rule.

Mr. Xi spoke during a televised ceremony to honor doctors, nurses, local
officials and others who party officials said had made an outstanding
contribution in fighting the virus, which first spread in central China
late last year. He said that the crisis had ignited a patriotic surge
that bolstered the party.

``The great strategic outcomes achieved in the struggle against the new
coronavirus have fully demonstrated the clear superiority of Communist
Party leadership and our socialist system,'' Mr. Xi said, addressing
rows of award recipients in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.

Mr. Xi's triumphant account would probably have drawn much wider
skepticism in China earlier this year, when many people were angered by
officials who understated the spread of infections in Wuhan, where the
epidemic took off. But the public mood shifted as China emerged from the
crisis far more smoothly than the United States and other advanced
economies did.

Near the start of Tuesday's meeting, the thousands in the hall observed
a minute or so of silence to mourn the thousands who died in China from
the virus, including many medical workers. But online, Chinese people
lamented the lack of mention of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/07/world/asia/Li-Wenliang-china-coronavirus.html}{Li
Wenliang}, the Wuhan doctor who was chastised by the police for alerting
his colleagues to the then little-understood virus, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/world/asia/chinese-doctor-Li-Wenliang-coronavirus.html}{later
died from Covid-19}.

``Dr. Li, I thought your name should have been at the award day
ceremony,'' said one of many similar comments on Dr. Li's page on Sina
Weibo, a popular Chinese social media service.

Now China is trying to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/business/china-xi-economy.html}{turn
attention to economic recovery}, and the government has chosen an
unusual set of volunteers to test a coronavirus vaccine: its trade
negotiators, who are more likely than most Chinese to interact with
potentially infected foreigners.

Chen Deming, a former commerce minister who is still active on trade
issues, was maskless when he took the podium at an economic policy
conference on Tuesday morning in Beijing. He drew laughter and applause
when he began by saying, ``The host doesn't have to wear a mask because
I've already had the Phase 3 trial vaccine shot.''

Mr. Chen, a Communist Party elder statesman who turns 71 this year,
added that he had developed antibodies to protect against the
coronavirus.

In a short interview after his speech, Mr. Chen said that he had
received the Sinopharm vaccine, one of several now in Phase 3 trials in
China. A third of the Commerce Ministry's staff has joined him in
applying for the trial and receiving the vaccine, he added.

China's vaccine makers have been turning to Chinese citizens who travel
overseas, and to countries such as Brazil and Indonesia, in their search
for people with whom to test whether their products work.

``For those people who have a high overseas or travel exposure, they
have a high priority to receive the vaccine,'' said Wang Huiyao, the
president of the Center for China and Globalization, an influential
Beijing research group that organized the conference at which Mr. Chen
spoke.

\hypertarget{on-a-holiday-weekend-in-the-us-the-virus-continues-its-grinding-hold-on-americans-lives}{%
\subsection{On a holiday weekend in the U.S., the virus continues its
grinding hold on Americans'
lives.}\label{on-a-holiday-weekend-in-the-us-the-virus-continues-its-grinding-hold-on-americans-lives}}

Image

The Crown Heights neighborhood in Brooklyn on Monday. At the beginning
of Labor Day weekend on Friday, the seven-day average number of new
cases was 41,233, and the average number of new deaths reported was
851.Credit...Laylah Amatullah Barrayn for The New York Times

Before Memorial Day weekend in May, the United States recorded a
seven-day average number of new cases of 22,580,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}, and the average for new deaths announced
was 1,216.

At the beginning of Labor Day weekend on Friday, the seven-day average
number of new cases was 41,233, and the average number of new deaths
reported was 851.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T10:06:50.372Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4a77847f}{As
  senators return to Washington, an impasse over a virus relief package
  looms.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-adc17f7}{China's
  leader declares success in suppressing the country's outbreak.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:

Within those numbers are more complicated stories:

In May, the country was beginning to emerge from lockdown. The number of
overall deaths in the U.S.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/24/us/us-coronavirus-deaths-100000.html}{was
nearing 100,000}. And doctors were trying to find answers to a
mysterious virus-related ailment affecting children. The death toll in
New York, once the center of the virus outbreak, had dropped below 100
for the first time since March.

Renu Kuinkel, 32, of Queens, said she and her husband tested positive in
the spring and have been largely staying home ever since. ``It's been
really bad,'' she said.

This weekend, though, they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/virus-laborday-travel-reststop-newjersey.html}{took
a road trip} to Maryland. ``Now we are feeling fine with the kids,'' Ms.
Kuinkel said. ``It's been hard, but a little bit fun, too.''

Most parents and children are now in the early stages of another round
of online learning. Many colleges and universities have welcomed
students back. The country is mostly open. And New York, once the
hottest of hot spots, announced that the positivity rate for the state
had remained under 1 percent for the past month.

Still, cases are rising in the Midwest and the western New York state
region. A big
\href{https://cms5.revize.com/revize/williamsvilleschools/Departments/Communications/2020-2021/SGM\%20Letters/9-4-20\%20Update\%20to\%20Families\%20Delayed\%20Reopening.pdf?fbclid=IwAR3IZDGyUkVTOELjggj2i-yP4pCEE4DtuDoKYBZ_yF36cdVzLkshIOnUpYY}{school
district outside Buffalo}, Williamsville, announced a delay for the
start of online-only instruction for students in grades 5-12 after
higher than expected demand, while nearly 100 staff members took a leave
of absence and more than 100 resigned. On Monday, the
\href{https://www.wivb.com/news/top-stories/williamsville-places-superintendent-on-administrative-leave/}{school
board voted} to place the superintendent on administrative leave.

Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the former commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration, said on Sunday that exhaustion with social distancing
and other measures meant to slow the spread of the pandemic is a
potentially serious problem as the seasons change.

``In the wintertime, you see respiratory pathogens spread more
aggressively, in part because people are indoors more,'' he
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/transcript-scott-gottlieb-discusses-coronavirus-on-face-the-nation-september-6-2020/}{added}
in an appearance on ``Face the Nation'' on CBS. ``They're in congregate
settings where respiratory pathogens can spread more efficiently.''

More than 260 deaths and at least 25,160 new cases were reported across
the United States on Monday. But because of the Labor Day holiday, some
states and counties did not report data.

\hypertarget{south-koreas-young-doctors-return-to-work-after-striking-during-an-outbreak}{%
\subsection{South Korea's young doctors return to work after striking
during an
outbreak.}\label{south-koreas-young-doctors-return-to-work-after-striking-during-an-outbreak}}

Image

A member of the Korean Intern and Resident Association strikes at
Gwanghwamun Square in Seoul last month.Credit...Yonhap/EPA, via
Shutterstock

Thousands of trainee doctors in South Korea returned to work on Tuesday,
ending a two-and-a-half-week strike that had complicated efforts to
battle the coronavirus at a critical point in the outbreak.

Intern and resident doctors went on strike on Aug. 21 to protest the
government's medical reform program, which included plans to increase
the number of medical school students and open public medical schools.
The walkout caused delays ​at major hospitals --- where nurses, intern
and resident doctors form the backbone of emergency rooms and intensive
care units​ --- even as the government
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-church-sarang-jeil.html}{battled
a second wave of infections}.

The government wants to increase the number of doctors to better handle
emergencies, including Covid-19, and to provide greater medical access
in rural areas. But young doctors said the country already had enough
physicians and that the proposed reforms would result in more doctors in
big cities like Seoul, where many of them specialize in popular and
lucrative specialties like plastic surgery, dermatology and dentistry.

The Korea Medical Association, a lobby for doctors, reached a deal last
Friday to end the strike after the government agreed to shelve its
reform programs and review them from scratch after the pandemic ends.
But the young doctors stayed on strike for a few more days, saying they
had not been consulted.

They returned to work on Tuesday, but many medical students are still
refusing to take final licensing exams​ scheduled for this week,​
​demanding a firmer commitment from the government not to push its
reform program.

South Korea's second wave has been linked to churches and a large
antigovernment protest in the capital, Seoul, last month. The daily
number of new cases in the country, which was below 100 for months, has
soared to three-digit spikes​ per day since mid August. The government
reported 136 new cases​ on Tuesday.

\hypertarget{with-no-federal-relief-in-sight-cities-and-states-in-the-us-are-enacting-major-budget-cuts}{%
\subsection{With no federal relief in sight, cities and states in the
U.S. are enacting major budget
cuts.}\label{with-no-federal-relief-in-sight-cities-and-states-in-the-us-are-enacting-major-budget-cuts}}

Image

New York City gutted a nascent composting program that could have kept
tons of food waste out of landfills.Credit...Christopher Lee for The New
York Times

Alaska chopped resources for public broadcasting.
\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dsny/site/services/food-scraps-and-yard-waste-page/overview-residents-organics}{New
York City} gutted a nascent
\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dsny/site/services/food-scraps-and-yard-waste-page/overview-residents-organics}{composting
program} that could have kept tons of food waste out of landfills. New
Jersey postponed property-tax relief payments.

Prisoners in
\href{https://www.tampabay.com/news/health/2020/07/02/desantis-cuts-money-for-prison-updates-hepatitis-c-treatment/}{Florida}
will continue to swelter in their cells, because plans to air-condition
its prisons are on hold. Many states have already cut planned raises for
teachers.

And that's just the start.

Across the United States, states and cities have made an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/business/virus-state-budgets.html}{array
of fiscal maneuvers} to stay solvent and are planning more in case
Congress can't agree on a fiscal relief package after the August recess.

House Democrats included nearly \$1 billion in state and local aid in
the
\href{https://www.congress.gov/116/bills/hr6800/BILLS-116hr6800ih.pdf}{relief
bill} they passed in May, but the Senate majority leader, Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky, has said he doesn't want to hand out a ``blank
check'' to pay for what he considers fiscal mismanagement, including the
enormous public-pension obligations some states have accrued. There has
been little movement in that stalemate lately.

Economists warn that further state spending reductions could prolong the
downturn by shaking the confidence of residents, whose day-to-day lives
depend heavily on state and local services like education, public
safety, health care and unemployment insurance.

``People look to government as their backstop when things are completely
falling apart,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics.
``If they feel like there's no support there, they lose faith and they
run for the bunker and pull back on everything.''

State officials say they have little choice but to keep cutting if more
aid doesn't arrive.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has warned that without further relief New York
will cut \$8.2 billion in grants to local governments, a blow he said
had ``no precedent in modern times.'' The cuts would hit ``nearly every
activity funded by state government,'' including special education,
pediatric health care, substance abuse programs, property-tax relief and
mass transit, he said.

The state faces a \$14.5 billion budget gap this fiscal year, according
to budget officials. As an alternative to more cuts,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/nyregion/wealth-tax-budget-billionaires.html}{progressive
Democrats have proposed taxing the rich}.

Mr. Cuomo, however, says the potential benefit of new revenue from doing
so would be far outstripped by the negative impact on the state's
highest earners, who already shoulder the bulk of the state's taxes.

``I don't care what you increase taxes to, you couldn't make up that
deficit,'' Mr. Cuomo said last week upon releasing a letter asking
congressional leaders for a whopping \$59 billion to cover two years of
projected state deficits and more.

global roundup

\hypertarget{as-it-battles-a-second-wave-spain-reports-more-than-half-a-million-cases}{%
\subsection{As it battles a second wave, Spain reports more than half a
million
cases.}\label{as-it-battles-a-second-wave-spain-reports-more-than-half-a-million-cases}}

Image

A patient who spent 55 days in intensive care is moved by medical staff
to a regular room in Barcelona on Monday.Credit...Emilio
Morenatti/Associated Press

Spain surpassed more than 525,000 total cases on Monday, according to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York Times database}, making it the only country in western Europe to
exceed the half-million mark.

The country is experiencing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/world/europe/coronavirus-covid-spain-second-wave.html}{a
second wave of cases} after a relative lull during the summer, and the
virus is spreading much faster there than anywhere else on the
continent.

Spain was already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/world/europe/spain-coronavirus.html}{one
of the hardest-hit countries in Europe}. But after one of the world's
most stringent lockdowns, which checked the virus's spread, the country
enjoyed one of the most rapid reopenings.

The return of nightlife and group activities --- which came far faster
than for most of its European neighbors --- has contributed to the
epidemic's resurgence in Spain. Government officials have announced that
schools will reopen this month, with masks obligatory for students 6 and
older.

Many doctors and politicians are not as terrified by Spain's second wave
as they were by its first. The mortality rate is roughly half of what it
was at the height of its crisis --- falling to 6.6 percent from the 12
percent peak in May --- and the median age of people who tested positive
has dropped to around 37 from 60.

Still, experts fear that the growing number of cases could signal a new
surge across the continent.

In other developments around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Japan} on Tuesday approved a plan to spend more than \$6
  billion from its emergency budget reserves on coronavirus vaccines.
  The chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga,
  \href{http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/tyoukanpress/202009/8_a.html}{told
  reporters} that AstraZeneca had agreed to supply 120 million doses
  starting from early 2021, and that Pfizer would supply 120 million
  doses by the end of June. Mr. Suga said the government was also
  negotiating with Moderna for more than 40 million additional doses.
\item
  \textbf{Hong Kong} will expand the size of legal public gatherings to
  four from two on Friday, as the Chinese territory loosens restrictions
  that it imposed this summer to fight a third wave of infections. More
  sports and entertainment venues will also be allowed to reopen.
\item
  \textbf{Denmark} announced on Monday that the limit on the size of
  public gatherings would be lowered from 100 to 50 in Copenhagen and
  other cities in response to a rise in cases. The measures were
  announced by the country's health minister and will be implemented on
  Sept. 9 for 17 municipalities, including Odense, Denmark's third
  largest city. In addition to the new limits on the size of assemblies,
  bars and restaurants will have to close by midnight, Magnus Heunicke,
  the minister of health and elderly affairs, said during a news
  conference.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{looking-to-buy-a-used-car-so-is-everyone-else}{%
\subsection{Looking to buy a used car? So is everyone
else.}\label{looking-to-buy-a-used-car-so-is-everyone-else}}

Image

The demand for used cars could remain brisk if the pandemic worsens in
the fall and the economy weakens further, even if the supply of new cars
improves.Credit...David Degner for The New York Times

Used cars are usually overlooked in the fanfare accorded to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/business/tesla-electric-car-audi-polestar.html}{cutting-edge
electric cars} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/15/automobiles/wheels/luxury-trucks-suv.html}{gussied-up
pickup trucks}. Now they are suddenly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/business/used-cars-pandemic.html}{the
industry's hottest commodity}.

Consumers are snapping up used vehicles as second or third cars so they
can
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/us/coronavirus-public-transit.html}{avoid
trains, buses} or Ubers during the coronavirus pandemic. Others are
buying used rather than new to save money in an uncertain economy, not
knowing when they or their spouse might lose a job. Demand for older
cars has also been fed by a roughly two-month
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/business/economy/gm-ford-fiatchrysler-factories-virus.html}{halt
in production of new cars} this spring.

Across the United States, the prices of used cars have shot up. The
increase defies the conventional wisdom that cars are depreciating
assets that lose a big chunk of their value the moment they leave the
dealership. In July alone, the average value of used cars jumped more
than 16 percent, according to Edmunds.com.

In June, the most recent month for which data is available, franchised
car dealers sold 1.2 million used cars and trucks, according to Edmunds,
up 22 percent from a year earlier. It was the highest monthly total
since at least 2007.

The boom has turned the business of selling cars upside down. Because
used cars don't come from factories in Detroit, dealers are having to
work as hard to buy cars as they typically do to sell them, they say,
including running ads and cold calling people to ask if they would be
interested in selling their old car. That's how strong demand for used
cars has become in the pandemic.

``Used cars are supposed to depreciate, but I'd look up the book value
of a car on the lot and see it was higher than at the beginning of the
month,'' said Adam Silverleib, president of Silko Honda in Raynham,
Mass. ``I've never seen that before.''

Mr. Silverleib recently sold a 2017 Honda Pilot with 22,000 miles to
Suzanne Cray and her husband. The family had gotten by with just one
car. But Ms. Cray, a nurse who works at Tufts Medical Center in Boston,
said the family had decided it needed another to ensure that no one had
to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/technology/the-results-are-in-for-the-sharing-economy-they-are-ugly.html}{ride
with Uber} or on public transportation.

The boom is of a piece with other unexpected trends in a recession that
has left millions of people unemployed and has devastated airlines,
restaurants, hotels and small businesses. Despite that pain, the
pandemic has been a boon to old standbys of the economy, like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/business/coronavirus-processed-foods.html}{canned
and processed foods} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/nyregion/nyc-suburbs-housing-demand.html}{suburban
home sales}, that had fallen out of favor in recent years.

The growing desire to own a car has caught many people by surprise and
unnerved others who are worried about what it might say about the future
of cities and transportation. Mayor Bill de Blasio, who gets around in
an S.U.V., recently implored New Yorkers, many of whom don't own
vehicles, not to buy a car, saying they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/style/car-buying-new-york-coronavirus.html}{represent
``the past.''}

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Iowa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Miss.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Kan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.C.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ky.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/012fd8151365199db9276a22f739d169a5957323/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide ›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/012fd8151365199db9276a22f739d169a5957323/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{long-haul-patients-are-facing-struggles-with-their-mental-health}{%
\subsection{Long-haul patients are facing struggles with their mental
health.}\label{long-haul-patients-are-facing-struggles-with-their-mental-health}}

Image

Angela Aston, a nurse practitioner in San Marcos, Texas, was sick for
months with Covid-19. Her colleagues gradually came to not believe her:
```You're fine,' they would say, and I would have to tell them, `No, I
can't breathe.'''Credit...Sergio Flores for The New York Times

Early on in the pandemic, a pervasive myth among patients and some
health authorities was the idea that Covid-19 was a short-term illness.
Only fairly recently has more attention been given to Covid-19
``long-haulers,'' whose sicknesses have persisted for months.

In online support groups like
\href{https://www.wearebodypolitic.com/covid19}{Body Politic} and
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/groups/COVID19survivorcorps/?multi_permalinks=786479422100919\&notif_id=1598482547497795\&notif_t=group_highlights\&ref=notif}{Survivor
Corps}, long-haulers have produced
\href{https://patientresearchcovid19.com/}{informal surveys} and
\href{https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KmLkOArlJem-PArnBMbSp-S_E3OozD47UzvRG4qM5Yk/edit}{reports}
to study their course of illness, and many have opened up about how
their mental health has suffered because of the disease. Dozens wrote
that their months of illness have contributed to anxiety and depression,
exacerbated by the difficulties of getting access to medical services
and experiencing disruptions to their work, social and exercise
routines.

``I felt this stigma like, `I've got this thing nobody wants to be
around,''' said Angela Aston, 50, a nurse practitioner who was sick for
weeks. ``It makes you depressed, anxious that it's never going to go
away. People would say to my husband, `She's not better yet?' They start
to think you're making it up.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Natalie Lambert, a health researcher at Indiana University School of
Medicine, recently
\href{https://precisionhealth.iu.edu/news-multimedia/_news/lambert-covid-symptom-study-doc.pdf}{surveyed}
more than 1,500 long-haul patients through the Survivor Corps Facebook
page and found a number of common psychological symptoms. She found that
anxiety was the eighth most common long-haul symptom, cited by more than
700 respondents. Difficulty concentrating was also high on the list, and
more than 400 reported feeling ``sadness.''

Dr. Teodor Postolache, a psychiatrist at the University of Maryland
School of Medicine, estimates that between one-third and one-half of
Covid-19 patients experienced some form of mental health problems
including anxiety, depression, fatigue or abnormal sleeping.

``I've had three OK days, but I'm hesitant to share that, because it
could go away,'' Ms. Smith said. ``Long-haulers will tell you that. We
preface every conversation when we feel good with, `I'll regret saying
this tomorrow.'''

\hypertarget{the-french-open-will-allow-a-limited-number-of-spectators}{%
\subsection{The French Open will allow a limited number of
spectators.}\label{the-french-open-will-allow-a-limited-number-of-spectators}}

Image

The Suzanne Lenglen court stands at the Roland Garros stadium in Paris,
ahead of the 2018 French Open tennis tournament.Credit...Thomas
Samson/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Despite a resurgence of the virus in France, officials from the French
Tennis Federation announced on Monday that they will allow spectators at
the French Open, which will take place from Sept. 27 to Oct. 11. The
plans have been scaled back, however, to 11,500 people a day.

Roland Garros stadium, where the tournament is held, stretches across
almost 30 acres and will be split into three separate zones. The two
larger ones will allow 5,000 people each; the third will allow 1,500.
Normally, the stadium holds about 35,000 people.

``The French Tennis Federation, with advice from a committee of expert
scientists, is acting responsible and in close collaboration with the
French government authorities to draw up a strict protocol that will
ensure the health and safety of everyone who is on site at Roland Garros
stadium during the tournament,'' the officials said.

The U.S. Open is currently underway at the Billie Jean King National
Tennis Center in Queens, but without any fans in the stadium. The French
Open, usually played in late May, was pushed to September because of the
pandemic.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/sports/tennis/french-open-fans.html?searchResultPosition=3}{In
early July}, Bernard Giudicelli, the president of the French Tennis
Federation, said the tournament may be able to accommodate 20,000 fans
per day. At that time, the seven-day average for the daily number of new
cases was about 700,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}. In the two months since, the seven-day
average has risen to more than 5,000, rivaling the first peak of cases
in April. On Friday alone, there were nearly 9,000 new cases.

Spectators will not be able to move between zones of the stadium and
everyone over the age of 11 will have to wear face coverings.

\hypertarget{skyrocketing-cases-push-india-to-no-2-on-the-pandemic-list}{%
\subsection{Skyrocketing cases push India to No. 2 on the pandemic
list.}\label{skyrocketing-cases-push-india-to-no-2-on-the-pandemic-list}}

Image

Commuters ride the subway in New Delhi on Monday, the day it opened
after being shut for more than five months.Credit...Prakash Singh/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

India, home to the world's fastest-growing outbreak, has surpassed
Brazil to become the country with the second-highest number of cases.

On Monday, India reported 90,802 new cases, breaking its own record from
the day before and taking its total to more than 4.2 million, according
to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York Times database}. Brazil is now third with more than 4.1 million
cases.

In early July, India surpassed Russia to become the country with the
third-highest number of cases. By then, the United States was entrenched
at No. 1, where it remains, with more than 6.2 million cases.

``Crowded cities, lockdown fatigue and a lack of contact tracing have
spread Covid-19 to every corner of this country of 1.3 billion people,''
The Times's Jeffrey Gettleman and Sameer Yasir
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/world/asia/india-coronavirus.html}{reported}
in late August.

India has recorded 71,642 deaths from the virus, the world's
third-highest toll after the United States and Brazil, though as a
youthful nation India has a relatively low death rate per capita.

India's surge in cases comes as the government continues to ease
lockdown measures in an effort to help the economy. On Monday, the
subway system in New Delhi, the capital, began a
\href{http://www.delhimetrorail.com/press_reldetails.aspx?id=YEUIu1E8HMklld}{phased
reopening} after being shut for more than five months.

The pandemic has been economically devastating for India, which not so
long ago
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/world/asia/india-economy-coronavirus.html}{dreamed
of becoming a global powerhouse}. Last week, the government
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/world/asia/india-economy-gdp.html}{reported
a 24 percent contraction} in the second quarter, the worst among the
world's top economies.

\hypertarget{pakistan-will-open-up-high-schools-and-universities-in-mid-september}{%
\subsection{Pakistan will open up high schools and universities in
mid-September.}\label{pakistan-will-open-up-high-schools-and-universities-in-mid-september}}

Image

Students take classes at an open-air free school in Islamabad on June
3.Credit...Sohail Shahzad/EPA, via Shutterstock

Pakistani officials said on Monday that they plan to open high schools
and universities across the country as of Sept. 15, encouraged by the
decline in cases over the past couple of months.

The seven-day average of new cases was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{467
as of Sunday}, according to a New York Times database (the average was
not as of Monday). Overall, Pakistan has had more than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{298,000
cases}.

``We have decided to open education institutions in a phased manner,''
Shafat Mehmood, the country's education minister, said during a press
briefing in Islamabad, the capital.

Officials said they will monitor the situation for a week and, if things
remains under control, classes for younger children will begin on Sept.
23.

``It is a very big decision,'' Mr. Mehmood said. ``I want to thank the
parents and students who were very patient over the last six months.
These were difficult times.''

Pakistan has seven million students in high schools and universities,
and 6.4 million students in sixth through eighth grades, Mr. Mehmood
said.

The numbers of cases and deaths in the country have fallen steeply in
recent months. Cases rose sharply in the middle of June, leading to
fears that the country's weak health care system would be unable to cope
with the pandemic. But officials said a coordinated national effort to
impose selective lockdowns and safety measures
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/world/asia/reopening-before-coronavirus-ends.html?searchResultPosition=20}{led
to decline in the curve}.

Health experts said that several other factors also helped stop the
spread of the disease. They have credited the country's large youth
population and the existence of vaccination programs for diseases like
tuberculosis and leprosy. Still, there is no definitive answer as to why
Pakistan has been spared the kind of confirmed spread that has afflicted
other countries, like neighboring India.

Dr. Faisal Sultan, the special assistant to the prime minister of
health, said school authorities will work to ensure that social
distancing is maintained during classes.

``The most important role will be that of a mask,'' Dr. Sultan said. He
added that students who are sick or have a cough or fever should stay
home.

``We cannot lower our guard,'' he said.

\hypertarget{citing-the-virus-myanmars-leader-cancels-her-first-campaign-appearance}{%
\subsection{Citing the virus, Myanmar's leader cancels her first
campaign
appearance.}\label{citing-the-virus-myanmars-leader-cancels-her-first-campaign-appearance}}

Image

Myanmar's civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi is pictured on a car
sticker. She announced on Monday that she was canceling her first
planned campaign appearance because two members of her household staff
had tested positive for coronavirus.Credit...Nyein Chan Naing/EPA, via
Shutterstock

Myanmar's civilian leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, announced on Monday
that she was canceling her first planned campaign appearance because of
the spread of the virus, as officials said two members of her household
staff had tested positive.

Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a member of parliament who serves as state
counselor and foreign minister, is running for re-election in her
district in Yangon, Myanmar's largest city, in national elections
scheduled for Nov. 8.

The isolated country, wedged between China, Bangladesh and Thailand, had
largely been spared from the virus until last month, when it began
spreading in Rakhine State in western Myanmar.

As of Aug. 20, the country had fewer than 400 cases. But by Monday, the
government reported more than 1,400 cases and eight deaths. Some
provinces have imposed travel restrictions on other regions, including
requiring visitors to undergo 21 days of quarantine upon arrival.

Officials said Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi had not had personal contact
recently with the two staff members who tested positive at her lakeside
house in Yangon, where she spent 15 years under house arrest during
military rule.

In canceling her campaign kickoff appearance scheduled for Tuesday, she
said the minister of health, U Myint Htwe, had advised her against
traveling to her district from the capital, Naypyidaw, where she now
spends most of her time.

``At the moment the ministry of health is the most powerful,'' she said
in a video appearance on Facebook. ``We need to follow the instructions
of the ministry of health.

The recipient of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi has
received widespread international condemnation for her refusal to defend
the Rohingya Muslims, the target of a genocidal campaign by the Myanmar
military with whom she now shares power.

About 1 million Rohingya have fled violence and persecution in Myanmar
to Bangladesh where they live in crowded refugee camps. Aid officials
there worry that they are highly vulnerable to the coronavirus.

Myanmar's election Nov. 8 will serve as a referendum on Ms. Aung San Suu
Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, which won by a landslide
five years ago but has struggled to improve the country's standard of
living.

Reporting was contributed by Livia Albeck-Ripka, Neal E. Boudette, ****
Keith Bradsher, Chris Buckley, Choe Sang-Hun, Chris Buckley, Alan
Burdick, Kenneth Chang, Nick Corasaniti, Thomas Erdbrink, Luis
Ferré-Sadurní, Jacey Fortin, Natasha Frost, Claire Fu, Emma Goldberg,
Ethan Hauser, Makiko Inoue, Cindy Lamothe, Salman Masood, Jesse
McKinley, Christina Morales, Saw Nang, Richard C. Paddock, Bryan
Pietsch, Anna Schaverien, Mike Seely, Neil Vigdor, Mariel Wamsley, Mary
Williams Walsh, Michael Wines, Sui-Lee Wee and Elaine Yu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
