Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Hecky Powell, Barbecue Master and
Civic Leader, Dies at 71

\url{https://nyti.ms/2BqBtAv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Those We've Lost

\hypertarget{hecky-powell-barbecue-master-and-civic-leader-dies-at-71}{%
\section{Hecky Powell, Barbecue Master and Civic Leader, Dies at
71}\label{hecky-powell-barbecue-master-and-civic-leader-dies-at-71}}

From his restaurant in Evanston, Ill., he fed hungry students and the
Chicago Bulls, and counseled high schoolers, mayors, a governor and a
young Barack Obama.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/05/obituaries/03Powell1-print/merlin_173080215_cdddc4e6-7744-4aca-993c-50d4f3e9c81a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/penelope-green}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-penelope-green/author-penelope-green-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/penelope-green}{Penelope Green}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 4, 2020Updated June 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in
the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/series/people-who-have-died-of-the-coronavirus}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

Hecky Powell had a deal with one of his longtime employees, a woman who
had struggled with a drug habit. Every time she attended a rehab
meeting, he paid her \$15. If she worked a full week, she got a bonus.
But if she flaked, she lost the entire week's wages.

Mr. Powell, whose South Side Chicago-style barbecue restaurant was an
institution in Evanston, Ill., liked to say that he didn't want to give
people handouts --- he wanted to give them skills. From his office,
chockablock with awards, newspaper clippings, banners and plaques in his
name, he mentored the young and the disadvantaged as well as the
powerful. He died on May 22 at 71 in a hospital in Glenview, Ill. His
wife, Cheryl Judice, said the cause was complications of Covid-19.

Mr. Powell fed Northwestern University students who didn't have the
money to travel home for Thanksgiving. He paid struggling high school
students \$20 for every A they earned. He offered scholarships and
grants to countless others.

He also fed the Chicago Bulls, catering the team's private plane on
occasion at the request of their All-Star forward Scottie Pippen, and he
once advised a young Barack Obama when Mr. Obama was running for the
Illinois Senate.

``I have just met the first African-American vice president,'' he told
his wife.

``He was the unofficial mayor of Evanston,'' said Stephen H. Hagerty,
the city's actual mayor. He recalled how Mr. Powell had driven him
through the Fifth Ward, the heart of Evanston's black community, to give
him a history lesson when Mr. Hagerty was running for office.

And Mr. Powell had long been a sounding board for his friend J.B.
Pritzker, even before Mr. Pritzker, a Democrat, became governor of
Illinois last year. Mr. Powell would always speak his mind, the governor
said in a phone interview.

``I don't want to say he was blunt; that sounds too abrupt,'' Mr.
Pritzker said. ``Hecky was genuine, straightforward and practical. He
wasn't an ideologue. He was a problem solver. He might be conservative
on one issue and liberal on another.''

His candor could strike some people the wrong way. In 2003, when Mr.
Powell was a member of the local school board, he questioned a survey
that categorized biracial students as either black or white. ``In
America, we're all mutts,'' he said. ``I'm a mutt.''

\href{https://dailynorthwestern.com/2003/05/26/archive-manual/i-am-a-mutt/}{There
was blowback}. The word ``mutt'' was a racist slur, many complained.

Afterward, Mr. Powell, whose mother is Creole, mischievously added a
Mutt Special to Hecky's menu (a combo platter of fried chicken, rib tips
and hot links). Mr. Powell said the name was an acronym for ``Me
Uttering the Truth.''

In 2008, when President-elect Obama declared himself a mutt, too, in
response to a question about what kind of shelter dog he might adopt for
his daughters, Mr. Powell felt vindicated.
\href{https://www.nbcchicago.com/news/local/obama-mutt-remark-gets-evanston-man-out-of-the-dog-house/1845081/}{``Obama
`Mutt' Remark Gets Evanston Man Out of the Dog House,''} a Chicago
television station declared.

``Hecky would tell you that the only color that matters in this country
is green,'' Ms. Judice said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/03/obituaries/03Powell2/merlin_173080248_7b6cd5b2-9cc4-4cc2-a0fa-24bed89f9d1d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Harry William Powell was born on Nov. 6, 1948, at Cook County Hospital
in Chicago (now the John H. Stroger Jr. Hospital of Cook County). His
mother, Verna (Jenkins) Powell, a New Orleans native, had been forced to
give birth there because there was no room at the
\href{https://dailynorthwestern.com/2000/04/13/archive-manual/exhibit-explores-citys-history-of-segregation/}{Community
Hospital of Evanston}, the only one in town then that accepted black
patients. His father, Forrest Powell, was a buildings custodian who did
maintenance work for wealthy white families on the side.

One of nine siblings, Hecky --- he inherited the nickname from an uncle
--- was a teenage father with a wild streak that landed him in state
detention for eight months on a vandalism charge. He earned a college
degree at the
\href{https://www.neiu.edu/academics/nontraditional-degree-programs/university-without-walls}{University
Without Walls}, a nontraditional degree program at Northeastern Illinois
University, while working as a community organizer and social services
director in Evanston.

In 1983, Mr. Powell and Ms. Judice, a sociologist, had been dating for
several years and working side by side on community initiatives when the
restaurant next to Mr. Powell's office came on the market. The couple
bought it. They knew nothing about food, Ms. Judice said, but Mr.
Powell's mother certainly did.

Verna Powell had lost her job at a restaurant, and her husband was out
of work, too. The idea was that the elder Powells would run the place.
They named it \href{https://www.heckys.com}{Hecky's}. It offered a full
barbecue menu (including sauce-drenched ribs and rib tips on a bed of
fries and two slices of Wonder Bread), for takeout, delivery and
catering only.

Hecky's soon had a motto, ``It's the Sauce,'' and a following. William
Perry, a Chicago Bears lineman aptly known as the Refrigerator, was an
early customer.

In 1996, Mr. Powell and Evanston's mayor at the time, Lorraine Morton,
made a bet with the mayor of Pasadena that Northwestern's Wildcats would
beat the University of Southern California in the Rose Bowl. When their
home team lost, Mr. Powell made ribs and chicken for Pasadena's entire
City Council.

Kevin Pang, \href{https://www.saveur.com/chicago-barbecue/}{a food
writer in Chicago,} said that by virtue of having a restaurant in the
suburb of Evanston near the Northwestern campus, Mr. Powell had
introduced a wider world to South Side-style barbecue, prepared in an
aquarium smoker and slathered in sauce. (Hecky's ultimately bottled its
sauce and sold it nationwide.)

``Hecky took a finicky, hard-to-replicate style of barbecue, studied by
few and mastered by even fewer, and absolutely nailed it,'' Mr. Pang
said. ``He smoked rib tips and hot links as good as any one in the
Midwest.''

Mr. Powell, a former director of Neighbors at Work, a community
organization, created the \href{http://forrestepowell.com/}{Forrest E.
Powell Foundation,} named for his father, in 1994, a work-skills program
for those without a college degree. He had been president of the local
branch of the N.A.A.C.P. In 2014, the corner where his restaurant sits
was named ``Hecky Powell Way.''

In addition to his wife and mother, Mr. Powell is survived by his
children, Sharmin, Terry, Dawn, Joy, Hecky Jr., Jason and Gigi, as well
as seven siblings.

Last week, \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8MYiswrtAdk}{a parade
of cars in his honor} drove slowly through Evanston, saluting Ms. Judice
with their horns as she sat in front of their brick home, an American
flag whipping in the breeze behind her.

Hecky's has stayed open during the pandemic, busier than ever, though it
has promoted social distancing and other protective measures. In early
May, before succumbing to the coronavirus, Mr. Powell posed for a
community service poster. It read, ``No Mask No Sauce.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina José Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negrón}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
