Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Rex Tillerson Is Confirmed
as Secretary of State Amid Record Opposition

\url{https://nyti.ms/2jZ1UCd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rex-tillerson-is-confirmed-as-secretary-of-state-amid-record-opposition}{%
\section{Rex Tillerson Is Confirmed as Secretary of State Amid Record
Opposition}\label{rex-tillerson-is-confirmed-as-secretary-of-state-amid-record-opposition}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/02/us/02tillerson_web2/02tillerson_web2-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/gardiner-harris}{Gardiner Harris}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 1, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Rex W. Tillerson, the former chairman and chief executive
of Exxon Mobil, was confirmed by the Senate on Wednesday in a 56-to-43
vote to become the nation's 69th secretary of state just as serious
strains have emerged with important international allies.

The votes against Mr. Tillerson's confirmation were the most in Senate
history for a secretary of state, a reflection of Democratic unease with
President Trump's early foreign policy pronouncements that threaten to
upend a multilateral approach that has guided United States presidents
since World War II.

Thirteen senators voted in 2005 against Condoleezza Rice in the midst of
a deteriorating Iraq war, and in 1825, Henry Clay was confirmed 27 to
14, the record for votes against until Wednesday, according to a tally
provided by the Senate Historical Office.

In a brief swearing-in ceremony in the Oval Office on Wednesday evening,
Mr. Trump said Mr. Tillerson understood ``the importance of
strengthening our alliances and forming new alliances to enhance our
strategic interests and the safety of our people.''

Mr. Trump added, ``It's time to bring a clear-eyed focus on foreign
affairs, to take a fresh look at the world around us, and to seek new
solutions grounded in very ancient truths.''

Mr. Tillerson thanked him and promised to ``represent the interests of
all of the American people at all times.''

Mr. Tillerson is expected to appear at the State Department's Foggy
Bottom headquarters on Thursday morning, when he will address department
employees.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/01/us/politics/tillerson-confirmation-vote-live.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/01/us/politics/tillerson-confirmation-vote-live-1485972542680/tillerson-confirmation-vote-live-1485972542680-thumbLarge-v5.jpg}

\hypertarget{how-senators-voted-on-rex-tillerson}{%
\subsection{How Senators Voted on Rex
Tillerson}\label{how-senators-voted-on-rex-tillerson}}

The Senate on Wednesday confirmed Rex W. Tillerson as secretary of
state.

Mr. Trump's unapologetically nationalistic approach has put into
question the value of many alliances and multilateral institutions. How
Mr. Tillerson's translates Mr. Trump's vow of ``America First'' into the
kind of polite diplomatic parlance that will maintain vital ties will be
a significant test.

Among his other challenges are dealing with Mr. Trump's promises to
recast relations with China and Russia, move the American Embassy in
Israel to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, and re-examine an international
nuclear deal with Iran.

In a White House briefing on Wednesday, Michael Flynn, the national
security adviser, issued a stern warning to Iran. ``The Obama
administration failed to respond adequately to Tehran's malign
actions,'' he said.

Mr. Tillerson, 64, a Texan, earned an engineering degree from the
University of Texas at Austin, got a job at Exxon in 1975 and climbed
his way to the top, leaving only last year. Neither a diplomat, soldier
nor politician, he is an unconventional choice for the job, but has vast
international experience.

With operations on six continents, Exxon Mobil is in some ways a state
within a state. As its chief executive, Mr. Tillerson struck deals with
repressive governments --- in at least one case, against the advice of
the State Department. Environmentalists largely opposed his nomination.

But his views on international affairs are in many ways more
conventional than those of Mr. Trump, which is why even
Democratic-leaning foreign affairs experts said they welcomed his
selection in hopes he would bring ballast to a turbulent administration.

``Rex Tillerson will have the most demanding and complex agenda to face
a secretary of state in a very long time,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, a
Harvard professor and career foreign service officer.

Another crucial question will be how much influence Mr. Tillerson has on
Mr. Trump. All cabinet secretaries must compete for power with White
House aides who have long personal relationships with and frequent
access to the president. But Mr. Trump's reliance on a close circle of
advisers to write and vet executive orders while keeping departments
that must implement them largely in the dark is without precedent.

Mr. Trump invited Mr. Tillerson for a private lunch at the White House
on Wednesday, the first time Mr. Tillerson has appeared on the
president's official schedule.

Mollifying allies infuriated by Mr. Trump's orders could be a full-time
job. A ban on refugee arrivals and entries from seven Muslim countries,
for instance, has enraged Iraqi officials whose cooperation is vital in
the fight against the Islamic State --- a top administration priority.
It has also infuriated many European leaders crucial to efforts not only
in Syria, but Afghanistan and Libya as well, and it has tarnished
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/30/world/europe/donald-trump-us-alllies.html}{what
had been viewed as a successful trip} by Prime Minister Theresa May of
Britain, who on Monday said she opposed the ban.

Relations with Mexico have plunged to their lowest level in decades
after Mr. Trump insisted he would build a border wall regardless of
Mexican opposition.

The relationship with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany threatened to
become toxic after Peter Navarro, the director of Mr. Trump's new
National Trade Council, denounced the relatively low value of the euro
as an unfair currency advantage for Germany.

``Tillerson faces the most difficult task of any secretary of state in
the postwar era in trying to reconcile President Trump's intention to
make a stark break from decades of bipartisan consensus U.S. foreign
policy leadership with the reality that, if he succeeds, such a break
could lead to global chaos,'' said Ryan C. Crocker, who served as the
United States ambassador to five Muslim countries.

Mr. Tillerson may also face difficult internal hurdles. Much of his
department's top leadership has departed --- many because the Trump
administration, like others before it, refused to keep political
appointees. But the Trump transition team has been so short-handed and
the pickings among Republican foreign policy veterans who had not
criticized Mr. Trump so slim that dozens of positions are likely to
remain empty for some time.

More worrisome, morale among the department's rank-and-file career
officers has plunged, with a dissent memo against the administration's
refugee and entry bans being submitted on Tuesday garnering more than
900 signatures, an extraordinary number.

Whether Mr. Tillerson meets these challenges with defiance or moderation
will be a telling indication of his leadership.

Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Monday that foreign
service officers ``can get with the program or they can go.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
