\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's Rally Recipe: Just
Add Data, Money, Entertainment and Grievance

\url{https://nyti.ms/3acpt1L}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/28/us/politics/00dc-supporter1/merlin_168053574_c3fbec96-7423-4dbc-ab1b-2bc57d9e6845-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{trumps-rally-recipe-just-add-data-money-entertainment-and-grievance}{%
\section{Trump's Rally Recipe: Just Add Data, Money, Entertainment and
Grievance}\label{trumps-rally-recipe-just-add-data-money-entertainment-and-grievance}}

One rally attendee's experience embodies the ideal outcome for a
campaign using digital platforms to bring followers into the flock and
keep them there.

Jacqueline D'Angelo, with her son, Lorenzo, attended her first Trump
rally in Wildwood, N.J., last month.Credit...Bryan Anselm for The New
York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-rogers}{Katie Rogers}

Photographs by Bryan Anselm

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WILDWOOD, N.J. --- The president asked for nothing less than everything
they had.

``If you want your children to inherit the blessings that generations of
Americans have fought and died for to secure,'' President Trump told a
crowd of supporters in Wildwood at one of a string of campaign rallies
he has held this winter, ``we must devote everything that we have toward
victory in 2020.''

Sitting a few yards to the president's right, a 53-year-old retired
police officer, Jacqueline D'Angelo, was taking Mr. Trump's words to
heart. Sitting with her 14-year-old son, Lorenzo, she pumped her fists
as Mr. Trump's voice rose and fell. She waved her made-for-TV sign ---
``Women for Trump'' --- and jeered along with the crowd when the
president ran down the list of his villains: Democrats, Nancy Pelosi,
the news media, Nancy Pelosi again. Mostly, she was having fun.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/28/us/politics/trump-new-jersey-rally.html}{The
rally last month} was just like any of over 500 that Mr. Trump has
hosted since announcing his candidacy in 2015, but this one was special
to Ms. D'Angelo because it was her first. When she emerged from the
rally, her cheeks were flushed.

``\emph{That},'' she said, ``was a release.''

For the campaign, it was a capture.

Ms. D'Angelo's experience represents the ideal outcome for a campaign
that leads the way in using digital platforms to bring followers into
the flock and hoovering up crucial voter information once they get
there. Rallies like this one --- and an upcoming one Friday night in
North Charleston, S.C. --- turn out to be the crown jewels of data
collection for Mr. Trump's campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/25/us/politics/00dc-supporter2/merlin_168053961_bb69d1bf-56f5-427a-bb5f-e14f333fed8c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{step-one-the-dataticket-exchange}{%
\subsection{Step one: The data/ticket
exchange}\label{step-one-the-dataticket-exchange}}

Campaign officials are open about viewing the rallies as data-mining
expeditions that can help create a red-hatted army of volunteers.

Ms. D'Angelo and her son, according to the campaign, were two of nearly
100,000 people who registered to attend the New Jersey rally, Mr.
Trump's first in the state as president. To register for the rally, she
visited the campaign site, clicked a button, then turned over her name,
email address and phone number. She received two tickets in return.

Ms. D'Angelo heard about the president's appearance through a friend who
helps her operate a
\href{https://www.facebook.com/groups/517022238508560//}{pro-Trump
Facebook page} she created before the 2018 midterm elections. Like most
Facebook groups that support Mr. Trump, hers is a cascade of links to
conservative websites, Trump White House social media posts and doctored
photos of the president's enemies, including Ms. Pelosi.

For Ms. D'Angelo, hearing the president talk was validation of her
decision to vote for Mr. Trump in 2016. Watching his performance over
the past three years --- particularly, she said, in securing America
from ``illegal immigrants'' --- she has gone from someone who was raised
politically independent to someone who now says she believes that the
truth is to be trusted only if it comes from Mr. Trump.

Image

Representative Jeff Van Drew, who switched parties to become a
Republican, joined Mr. Trump at the rally.

Image

Supporters waiting in line and posing with Trump campaign merchandise
hours ahead of the rally.

``I was on the fence like anybody else,'' she said. But now, ``it's like
a leap of faith for me knowing he's trying to do the right thing.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Her digital ticket request was just a drop in the campaign data
collection bucket. According to
\href{https://twitter.com/parscale/status/1222317267716837386?lang=en}{a
tweet by Brad Parscale}, the Trump campaign manager who publicly shares
data after each rally, the Wildwood event had 158,632 requested tickets.
Of the 73,482 voters identified by the campaign as seeking tickets, 10
percent did not vote in 2016 and more than a quarter had at one point
been registered as Democrats. That last figure has campaign officials
convinced that Mr. Trump is attracting people who are disillusioned with
the current slate of presidential candidates, so the campaign
cross-references the data it collects from rallies with voter
information collected by the Republican National Committee.

``When someone signs up to go to a rally, we can match them up to our
big voter file,'' said Tim Murtaugh, the campaign's communications
director. ``From that we can tell if they've voted recently, if they're
a Republican or Democrat, did they move from a different state. When we
can identify someone as a supporter, that improves all of our modeling
and voter scoring.''

Republican strategists say those numbers reveal that the Trump campaign
is focusing not just on drawing in believers, but also on making sure
they turn out to vote in November.

``People can be vocal Republicans online and in person but never vote,''
Eric Wilson, a Republican digital strategist, said in an interview.
``Voters are not necessarily rational actors, and that's why it's
critical for the campaign to build a one-to-one relationship with
them.''

Image

The rally had 158,632 requested tickets, according to the Trump
campaign.

\hypertarget{step-two-share-views-and-personal-data}{%
\subsection{Step two: Share views (and personal
data)}\label{step-two-share-views-and-personal-data}}

During the 90 minutes or so that Mr. Trump is onstage at every rally, he
delivers what his campaign sees as its best product: a president who
reinforces a feeling that the news media and the Democratic Party refuse
to see anything positive about his administration or his supporters.

As she waited in line in Wildwood, Ms. D'Angelo was approached by a
Bikers for Trump member who was volunteering to collect names, addresses
and phone numbers from people in the crowd on behalf of the New Jersey
Republican Party. (Ms. D'Angelo told him she had already signed up.) She
groused with an acquaintance, James Toto, a local councilman who is
running for Atlantic County freeholder, over L.G.B.T.-friendly bathroom
policies in public schools.

Ms. D'Angelo also took time to check in on her pro-Trump Facebook page,
sometimes broadcasting live video for others back home. Many of its
members once worked in law enforcement, as did Ms. D'Angelo, an Army
veteran who is retired from the police force in Paterson, N.J. She now
collects a pension that she supplements with an auto body business she
runs with her husband in Brigantine, N.J.

At Mr. Trump's rallies and campaign events, his words are fine-tuned to
appeal to white, Christian, blue-collar voters. Ms. D'Angelo, who is
white, said his overtures to the military and law enforcement
communities helped win her over. She cannot understand why anyone would
dislike Mr. Trump, a leader who, as she puts it, ``has cojones.''

``The last time I experienced such a patriotic push was 9/11,'' Ms.
D'Angelo said. ``Apple pie. Baseball. Christmas. He really embodies the
traditions we hold so dear.''

Image

The campaign identified 73,482 voters who requested tickets to the
rally, 10 percent of whom didn't vote in 2016.

Image

A Trump-branded teddy bear for sale outside the rally venue.

Christmas, as Ms. D'Angelo mentioned, is something Mr. Trump often
mentions at his rallies. He claims that he alone made it safe to say
``Merry Christmas'' again. A ``Make America Great Again''
\href{https://shop.donaldjtrump.com/products/keep-america-great-collectible-ornament}{collectible
ornament} costs \$60.

Ms. D'Angelo likens staying updated on pro-Trump news on Facebook to
another full-time job. She and other supporters who look at such pages
are nearly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/20/us/elections/trump-campaign-ads-democrats.html}{certain
to encounter the countless ads} the Trump campaign has used to flood the
platform. Facebook's fact-checking rules
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/technology/facebook-trump-biden-ad.html}{do
not apply to political ads}, letting candidates spread false or
misleading claims.

``It usually stays with current events,'' Ms. D'Angelo said of her own
page, ``and it's giving people a voice who can speak without
retaliation.''

Finding friendly faces nearly everywhere in the crowd, Ms. D'Angelo
complained with a stranger about the rough deal Mr. Trump got by
inheriting the Obama-era national deficit. When a reporter pointed out
that the president had actually
\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/national-debt-deficit-trump-how-it-compares-obama-bush-clinton-2019-11}{helped
widen the national debt} --- despite a campaign-trail pledge to erase it
within eight years --- she said that Mr. Trump had come into the job
with a lot on his plate.

``The thing is he's also straightened things out,'' Ms. D'Angelo said in
the president's defense.

As she spoke, a message came on the Jumbotron asking Trump supporters to
text their phone number to the campaign to stay in touch.

The campaign has aggressively pushed text sign-ups across its digital
platforms in order to create a direct relationship with individual
supporters to ask them for small donations. The tactic has long been
used by political campaigns --- 12 years ago, the Obama campaign
\href{https://adage.com/article/btob/lessons-sms-marketing-obama-campaign/273955}{was
praised for its leveraging} of SMS texting, by offering special
merchandise and targeting voters in specific areas with news about
rallies and events.

Image

The Trump campaign is adept at rolling out new lines of merchandise.

Image

The campaign has aggressively pushed text sign-ups across its digital
platforms.

But Teddy Goff, the Obama campaign's former digital director, said the
Trump campaign had taken traditional digital tactics in a new direction
by spreading misinformation and news of the president's latest political
skirmish --- basically, keeping supporters angry enough to vote.

The campaign's messaging approach often warns of what might happen
should a Democrat win the 2020 election. ``If Radical Democratic
candidates take back the Nation, they'll ruin everything President Trump
has accomplished,'' one recent email sent to supporters read, before
asking them to contribute money.

``I think the Trump campaign probably makes its people feel like they're
being well served in that he validates all of their grievances,'' Mr.
Goff said.

Ms. D'Angelo said her news diet included Twitter, Facebook and news
sites like the BBC and CNN --- though later she added that ``I can't
turn it on'' --- and Fox News. Occasionally, she checks in on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/09/us/politics/qanon-trump-conspiracy-theory.html}{QAnon,
the conspiracy website} that has a noticeable presence at Trump rallies,
to see what people are saying, but she views it more as entertainment.

Ultimately, Ms. D'Angelo said, she takes bits and pieces from a variety
of websites, crafting her own view of the news, but only believes it if
it is confirmed by the president.

``I tune into the president every day, Fox every night,'' Ms. D'Angelo
said. ``At night it's me and my husband. Fox comes on and we get up to
speed.''

\hypertarget{step-three-just-add-money}{%
\subsection{Step three: Just add
money}\label{step-three-just-add-money}}

After making it inside the Wildwoods Convention Center, Ms. D'Angelo
almost immediately encountered a table laden with Trump merchandise.
With \$100, she bought T-shirts, bumper stickers and hats, before
turning around and spending \$70 more on gifts for her brother. Along
with her American Express card, she also handed over her driver's
license, which was scanned and put into a database for campaign
contributions.

Image

Ms. D'Angelo spent almost \$200 on Trump merchandise.

Image

Ms. D'Angelo signing for her purchases, after handing over her driver's
license.

The Trump campaign is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/13/us/politics/donald-trump-2020-campaign.html}{adept
at rolling out new lines of merchandise}, sometimes tailoring it to the
latest social media outrage. Most of the merchandise requests are routed
through a company called Ace Specialties in Lafayette, La., whose owner,
Christl Mahfouz, can often be seen mingling with fans outside Trump
rallies.

Her team sells hats in exchange for money and the buyer's voting data:
Each time supporters buy a T-shirt or a hat at a rally, a digital
interface prompts them to turn over their names, addresses and other
voter-specific information. This data is then logged as a donation to
the Trump Make America Great Again Committee and each person's
contribution is saved for future Federal Election Commission reports,
according to a campaign official.

For Ms. D'Angelo, her purchases would serve another function: Wearing
them would give her pro-Trump protective armor after she left the bubble
of the rally for the outside world.

``There's a whole army behind him,'' Ms. D'Angelo said. ``Even in New
Jersey.''

Roughly 10 hours after she arrived in Wildwood, the president took the
stage and launched into his familiar call-and-responses, reserving
special treatment for Democrats, whom he called ``do nothing'' and
``crazy.'' Eventually, he landed on the news media.

Image

``There's a whole army behind him,'' Ms. D'Angelo said of Mr. Trump.
``Even in New Jersey.''

``Do you see the fakers back there?'' Mr. Trump said, pointing to
reporters and camera people in a roped-off area. ``Fake news.''

The president also spent time hammering home a key message: that he and
his family have sacrificed a life of luxury for him to be president. Ms.
D'Angelo heard that message loud and clear.

``Sometimes he looks so tired and I go, `Ugh, look at him,''' Ms.
D'Angelo said. ``He's going through so much abuse to protect us. I know
he's strong. I know he can take it. But compliment the man sometimes. I
don't see anything he's done wrong.''

By the time she left, the hours and money Ms. D'Angelo had spent in
Wildwood ended up solidifying her bond with a campaign --- and a
president --- who has prioritized his ability to connect with his
supporters on an emotional level. And after the rally, she knew her
marching orders.

``We need to do everything to get him re-elected,'' she said, ``is what
we're going to do.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
