Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}A New Coronavirus Adviser
Roils the White House With Unorthodox Ideas

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EXgEyB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bab1e0-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bab1e1-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bab1e2-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bab1e3-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bad8f0-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=71bad8f1-f4b5-11ea-b05b-4ba005ac198e\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-new-coronavirus-adviser-roils-the-white-house-with-unorthodox-ideas}{%
\section{A New Coronavirus Adviser Roils the White House With Unorthodox
Ideas}\label{a-new-coronavirus-adviser-roils-the-white-house-with-unorthodox-ideas}}

Dr. Scott Atlas arrived at the White House as a coronavirus contrarian,
questioning controls like masks. He has angered top health officials
while pushing a suite of disputed policy prescriptions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/us/politics/02dc-virus-atlas1/merlin_175677162_59095b9e-86ea-47f4-8a09-34cff4d1be13-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/23/reader-center/author-noah-weiland/author-noah-weiland-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{Noah
Weiland},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim
Tankersley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 2, 2020Updated Sept. 9, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Dr. Scott W. Atlas has argued that the science of mask
wearing is uncertain, that children cannot pass on the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/woodward-trump-book-virus.html}{coronavirus}
and that the role of the government is not to stamp out the virus but to
protect its most vulnerable citizens as Covid-19 takes its course.

Ideas like these, both ideologically freighted and scientifically
disputed, have propelled the radiologist and senior fellow at Stanford
University's conservative Hoover Institution into President Trump's
White House, where he is pushing to reshape the administration's
response to the pandemic.

Mr. Trump has embraced Dr. Atlas, as has Mark Meadows, the White House
chief of staff, even as he upsets the balance of power within the White
House coronavirus task force with ideas that top government doctors and
scientists like Anthony S. Fauci, Deborah L. Birx and Jerome Adams, the
surgeon general, find misguided --- even dangerous --- according to
people familiar with the task force's deliberations.

That might be the point.

``I think Trump clearly does not like the advice he was receiving from
the people who are the experts --- Fauci, Birx, etc. --- so he has
slowly shifted from their advice to somebody who tells him what he wants
to hear,'' said Dr. Carlos del Rio, an infectious disease expert at
Emory University who is close to Dr. Birx, the White House coronavirus
response coordinator.

Dr. Atlas is neither an epidemiologist nor an infectious disease expert,
the two jobs usually associated with pandemic response. But his frequent
appearances on Fox News Channel and his ideological surety caught the
president's eye.

So when Mr. Trump resumed his coronavirus news conferences in July and
August, it was Dr. Atlas who helped prepare his briefing materials,
according to people familiar with them. And it was his ideas that
spilled from the president's mouth.

``He has many great ideas,'' Mr. Trump told reporters at a White House
briefing last month with Dr. Atlas seated feet away. ``And he thinks
what we've done is really good, and now we'll take it to a new level.''

The core of his appeal in the West Wing rests in his libertarian-style
approach to disease management in which the government focuses on small
populations of at-risk individuals --- the elderly, the sick and the
immune-compromised --- and minimizes restrictions for the rest of the
population, akin to an approach used to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/business/sweden-economy-coronavirus.html}{disastrous
effect in Sweden}. The argument: Most people infected by the coronavirus
will not get seriously ill, and at some point, enough people will have
antibodies from Covid-19 to deprive the virus of carriers --- ``herd
immunity.''

``Once you get to a certain number --- we use the word herd --- once you
get to a certain number, it's going to go away,'' Mr. Trump told Laura
Ingraham on Fox News on Monday night.

Dr. Atlas's push has led to repeated private confrontations with Dr.
Birx, who in recent weeks has been advocating rigorous rules on wearing
masks, limiting bars and restaurants, and minimizing large public
gatherings.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T04:56:54.924Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Dr. Atlas declined a request to be interviewed, but Judd Deere, a White
House spokesman, accused the news media of trying to ``distort and
diminish'' his beliefs and record, adding that the adviser ``is working
to carry out the president's No. 1 priority: protecting the health and
safety of the American people.'' White House officials said there had
never been an attempt to shift policy to anything resembling herd
immunity.

``There's never been any advocacy of a herd immunity strategy coming
from me to the president, to anyone in the administration, to the task
force, to anyone I've spoken to,'' Dr. Atlas said in a radio interview
Tuesday.

White House officials said administration policy continued to focus on
efforts to curb the spread of the disease while pushing to rapidly
develop medical therapies to minimize deaths, as well as a vaccine. The
president and his aides believe effective treatments are critical to
allowing the country to return to normal.

But health officials say Dr. Atlas's beliefs, argued in news media
appearances and private conversations, have begun to shift the
administration's thinking.

Before joining the task force, Dr. Atlas pitched his ideas as a health
commentator on Fox News, which is in part how he attracted Mr. Trump's
attention. His arrival at the White House has coincided with less
visible roles for Dr. Birx and Dr. Fauci, the director of the National
Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/us/politics/02dc-virus-atlas2/merlin_175124379_0b049561-3ff2-4063-8b2e-f49af68a796f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Dr. Atlas pushed for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/coronavirus-testing-trump-cdc.html}{publish
a new recommendation last week} that people without
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/health/trump-world-health-organization-coronavirus.html}{Covid-19}
symptoms need not be tested, even if they were exposed to an infected
person --- a move that ran counter to evidence that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic-transmission.html}{people
without symptoms could be the most prolific spreaders}.

In a tense coronavirus task force meeting in which the guidelines were
debated, Dr. Atlas angered Dr. Robert R. Redfield, the C.D.C. director,
and Dr. Birx, according to senior administration officials.

But it is Dr. Atlas's embrace of herd immunity that has alienated his
colleagues the most.

``When you isolate everyone, including all the healthy people, you're
prolonging the problem because you're preventing population immunity,''
Dr. Atlas said in a
\href{https://radio.foxnews.com/2020/07/09/dr-scott-atlas-there-is-no-risk-to-children-from-covid-19-i-dont-know-why-people-deny-this/}{Fox
News radio interview} in July. ``Low-risk groups getting the infection
is not a problem. In fact, it's a positive.''

In a Fox News interview in June, he lamented that ``misinformation has
spread'' about herd immunity, arguing: ``The reality is that when a
population has enough people who have had the infection, and since these
people don't have a problem with the infection, that's not a problem.
That's not a bad thing.''

In Sweden, the government allowed restaurants, gyms, shops, playgrounds
and schools to remain open as the virus spread,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/world/europe/sweden-coronavirus-herd-immunity.html}{asking
its citizens} to follow social distancing and hygiene guidelines and
protect more vulnerable parts of the population.

The Washington Post on Monday
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-coronavirus-scott-atlas-herd-immunity/2020/08/30/925e68fe-e93b-11ea-970a-64c73a1c2392_story.html?hpid=hp_hp-banner-low_virustrump-7am\%3Ahomepage\%2Fstory-ans}{reported}
Dr. Atlas's advocacy for such a model.

That ``soft lockdown'' in Sweden had calamitous consequences, even in a
country less densely populated and healthier than the United States.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/15/world/europe/sweden-coronavirus-deaths.html}{Thousands
more people died} than in neighboring countries that imposed strict
lockdowns. The country's economy also continued to struggle, and Sweden
still falls far short of what scientists view as a possible threshold
for herd immunity.

But the idea has gained traction in conservative circles. Senator Rand
Paul, Republican of Kentucky,
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/SenatorRandPaul/posts/swedens-death-rate-was-less-than-a-third-of-new-yorks-an-important-fact-to-con}{says
the United States needs} to look at Sweden ``before letting the
nanny-staters shut the economy down again.''

The conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh discussed it on his show
\href{https://www.rushlimbaugh.com/daily/2020/04/10/two-stories-indicate-coronavirus-herd-immunity/}{in
April} and
\href{https://www.rushlimbaugh.com/daily/2020/08/10/good-news-dr-scott-atlas-added-to-coronavirus-task-force/}{cheered
Dr. Atlas's hiring} at the White House, saying he was ``countering
Fauci.''

``Scott Atlas is a brilliant guy, and he thinks by early October that we
could well be burned out of Covid,'' Mr. Limbaugh said.

Kevin Hassett, a former chairman of Mr. Trump's Council of Economic
Advisers, who returned briefly to the White House this spring to help
with the response to the pandemic, called Dr. Atlas ``a legendary
physician, and one of the smartest guys I know.''

He cited Dr. Atlas's early warnings for governors to protect nursing
homes from the virus. ``He's very similar to President Trump, in that
you never have to wonder what he thinks,'' Mr. Hassett said.

Mr. Trump is clearly enamored with Dr. Atlas's arguments, which back up
the president's desire to restart the economy, open schools and move
beyond the daily drumbeat of dire virus news.

But fully embracing any version of a policy resembling herd immunity has
profound medical and political risks. Simply allowing the virus to
travel through most of the population could lead to hundreds of
thousands, if not millions, of deaths. And medical officials are still
not sure how long that immunity might last, and how long-lasting some
effects of the virus could be.

``Trying to get to herd immunity other than with a vaccine isn't a
strategy,'' said Dr. Tom Frieden, a former C.D.C. director. ``It's a
catastrophe.''

Dr. David Dowdy, an infectious disease epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins
University who has
\href{https://www.jhsph.edu/covid-19/articles/achieving-herd-immunity-with-covid19.html}{researched
and written} about herd immunity, said that ``the appeal of the concept
of herd immunity is that it suggests we can simply go about doing our
regular daily lives and the coronavirus pandemic will take care of
itself,'' but that it has been tried and has not worked. ``Where we have
had less stringent responses, we've had more cases and more deaths,'' he
said.

Dr. Atlas's medical background --- chief of neuroradiology at Stanford
University Medical Center from 1998 to 2012 and editor of the textbook
``Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain and Spine'' --- appears
incongruous with his current role.

But Dr. Atlas does have political connections in Mr. Trump's world. He
has
\href{https://pnhp.org/news/rudy-giulianis-health-care-proposal/}{advised
the president's personal lawyer} Rudolph W. Giuliani, and his Hoover
Institution employs several staunch supporters of Mr. Trump's handling
of the virus.

Some Hoover scholars were early opponents of state and local government
moves to shut down economic activity in March and April, including
\href{https://www.hoover.org/research/coronavirus-pandemic}{Richard
Epstein, a law professor who predicted in March} that only 500 Americans
would die of the virus.

Another Hoover scholar, David R. Henderson,
\href{https://www.hoover.org/research/end-lockdowns-now}{wrote in May}:
``If the lockdowns are ended immediately, will there be more deaths than
if the they were not ended forthwith? Probably. But that won't be enough
to declare that ending the lockdown was a failure.''

In Washington, Dr. Atlas has introduced new tension to the coronavirus
task force.

In one of his first meetings, he argued over the science of mask
wearing. As Drs. Fauci and Birx maintained that drops in caseloads
reflected public health measures such as social distancing and
mask-wearing, Dr. Atlas insisted that peaks and declines could have
merely been the virus running its course, senior administration
officials said.

In other discussions, he argued that children cannot spread the virus,
despite numerous studies that have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/health/coronavirus-children.html}{shown}
that children can carry the virus, transmit it and die from it.

In
\href{https://www.hoover.org/research/doctor-scott-atlas-and-efficacy-lockdowns-social-distancing-and-closings-1}{a
June interview} with the Hoover Institution, he called it ``literally
irrational'' to close schools. ``All over the world, Switzerland,
Iceland, Australia, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Asian countries, there
is a minimal, if any, risk of children transmitting the disease, even to
their parents,'' he said.

Dr. Atlas brought a similar argument to an August event encouraging
school reopenings with Mr. Trump and Betsy DeVos, the education
secretary.

His role in the White House has given conservative media a new official
to present as a scientific authority on the coronavirus.

``The reality is that there's certain data that's very controversial
about masks,'' he told Tucker Carlson, the Fox News host, in August,
\href{https://video.foxnews.com/v/6180318434001\#sp=show-clips}{railing
against} the ``massive amount of fear bordering on hysteria.''

Dr. Atlas has also regularly promoted an idea that
\href{https://twitter.com/profshanecrotty/status/1293344524731691008}{immunologists
say is simply wrong}, that immune cells
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/health/coronavirus-immune-cells.html}{called
T cells}, programmed with infection from other coronaviruses, can
function like antibodies to prevent Covid-19.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
