Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{nypd-says-it-used-restraint-during-protests-heres-what-the-videos-show}{%
\section{N.Y.P.D. Says It Used Restraint During Protests. Here's What
the Videos
Show.}\label{nypd-says-it-used-restraint-during-protests-heres-what-the-videos-show}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andy-newman}{Andy Newman},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/larry-buchanan}{Larry
Buchanan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aaron-byrd}{Aaron Byrd}July
14, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

The videos below contain scenes of violence. Scroll to watch or
\protect\hyperlink{g-top}{skip ahead}.

Punches, tackles, beatings and shoves.

At the height of the recent Black Lives Matter marches in New York City,
the police were repeatedly recorded using force against protesters.

The department said it exercised restraint. This is what the videos
show.

 By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andy-newman}{Andy Newman},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/larry-buchanan}{Larry
Buchanan} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aaron-byrd}{Aaron Byrd} July
14, 2020

It was two hours after curfew on the sixth night of protests against
police brutality in New York City.

An officer in Brooklyn pushed a protester so hard that she fell backward
on the pavement. Then he shoved someone on a bicycle and picked up and
body-slammed a third person into the street.

An officer shoves a protester to the ground and shoves a cyclist. The
same officer then body-slams a third person to the pavement.June 2,
Fourth and Atlantic Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Daniel Altschuler

Nearby, a man fell running from the police. Officers swarmed him and
beat him with batons. A commanding officer, in his white-shirted
uniform, joined the fray and stepped on the man's neck.

Several officers chase down and beat a person with their batons. A
white-shirted officer runs up and steps on the person's neck.June 2,
Fourth and Atlantic Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Allison McCann/The New
York Times

All of it was caught on video. In fact, the New York Times found more
than 60 videos that show the police using force on protesters during the
first 10 days of demonstrations in the city after the death of George
Floyd.

A review of the videos, shot by protesters and journalists, suggests
that many of the police attacks, often led by high-ranking officers,
were not warranted.

Some videos have been edited for length and clarity.
\protect\hyperlink{full-list-incidents}{See the full set of videos
below}.

A video of five or 10 or 30 seconds does not tell the whole story, of
course. It does not depict what happened before the camera started
rolling. It is unclear from the videos, for instance, what the officers'
intentions were or why protesters were being arrested or told to move.

But the Police Department's
\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/nypd/downloads/pdf/public_information/public-pguide3.pdf}{patrol
guide} says officers may use ``only the reasonable force necessary to
gain control or custody of a subject.'' Force, policing experts say,
must be proportionate to the threat or resistance at hand at the moment
it is applied.

In instance after instance, the police are seen using force on people
who do not appear to be resisting arrest or posing an immediate threat
to anyone.

Officers attacked people who had their hands up.

A white-shirted officer shoves someone, who falls backward.May 29, Fifth
Avenue and Bergen Street, Brooklyn. Source: @crankberries

They hit people who were walking away from them.

A white-shirted officer uses a baton to strike a person on a bike.June
4, Washington Avenue and Fulton Street, Brooklyn. Source: John Knefel

They grabbed people from behind.

An officer walks into a crowd to grab someone from behind and pull them
to the ground. A second officer throws a second person to the
ground.June 2, Fifth Avenue and East 83rd Street, Manhattan. Source:
Requested anonymity

And they repeatedly pummeled people who were already on the ground.

A person is tackled to the ground by a group of officers and punched in
the head multiple times.June 6, Nassau and Gold Streets, Brooklyn.
Source: Mike Hassell

Police Commissioner Dermot F. Shea has maintained that misconduct during
the protests was confined to ``isolated cases'' and that officers were
confronted with violence by protesters.

He noted that during the first week of demonstrations, people
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/nyregion/nyc-protests-george-floyd.html}{looted
businesses},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/nyregion/police-cars-nyc-protests.html}{burned
police cars} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/30/nyregion/nyc-protests-george-floyd.html}{attacked
officers} with bricks, bottles and in one
case\href{https://nypost.com/2020/06/03/nypd-cop-bashed-with-fire-extinguisher-during-mayhem-in-manhattan/}{}\href{https://nypost.com/2020/06/03/nypd-cop-bashed-with-fire-extinguisher-during-mayhem-in-manhattan/}{a
fire extinguisher}. The unrest prompted Mayor Bill de Blasio to impose
an 8 p.m. curfew.

``I think the officers used an incredible amount of restraint in terms
of allowing people to vent,'' Commissioner Shea
\href{https://ag.ny.gov/NYPDtestimony}{said on June 22}. ``I am proud of
their performance in policing these protests, ending the riots and
upholding the rule of law.''

Yet for just about each viral moment that emerged from the protests ---
officers violently
\href{https://twitter.com/whitney_hu/status/1266540710188195843}{shoving
a woman to the ground} or
\href{https://twitter.com/joshfoxfilm/status/1268366550475603969}{beating
a cyclist} who seemed to be doing nothing more than trying to cross the
street --- The Times turned up multiple examples of similar behavior.

The police responded to words with punches and pepper spray.

An officer hits a person in the face and knocks them down. The person
gets up and moments later is pepper-sprayed and shoved again. Two more
officers pepper-spray a crowd of people.May 30, Flatbush Avenue
Extension and DeKalb Avenue, Brooklyn. Source: Jean-Cosme Delaloye/JCDe
Productions

Officers charged into peaceful crowds and pushed people to the ground.

An officer pushes through a crowd and grabs a person by the neck to push
them aside. Another officer knocks the person over, and the first
officer throws the person down again when they try to get up.May 30,
Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Doug Gordon

Sometimes, they appeared to lash out at random.

An officer runs up and shoves someone several times, and then shoves a
second and third person standing nearby.May 29, Greene and Classon
Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Zach Williams

Devora Kaye, the Police Department's assistant commissioner for public
information, declined repeated requests to review the full set of videos
provided by The Times and to explain the use of force in them.

She reiterated that ``isolated incidents'' of misconduct were being
addressed, noted that four officers had already been disciplined, and
said that the department's Internal Affairs Bureau was investigating 51
cases of use of force during the protests.

``The N.Y.P.D. has zero tolerance for inappropriate or excessive use of
force,'' she wrote, ``but it is also critical to review the totality of
the circumstances that lead to interactions where force is used.''

The police said that nearly 400 officers were injured during the
protests, and that 132 of the more than 2,500 people arrested
\href{https://www.newsday.com/news/new-york/nypd-funding-de-blasio-george-floyd-protests-1.45468714}{reported
injuries}, but that they did not have records of injured people who were
not arrested. Protesters have
\href{https://gothamist.com/news/nypd-protest-violence-victims-in-their-own-words}{described}
and documented at least five broken or fractured bones and four
concussions.

When presented with the videos collected by The Times, Kapil Longani,
counsel to Mr. de Blasio, said, ``These incidents are disturbing and New
Yorkers deserve a full accounting of these matters and access to a
transparent disciplinary process.''

But he cautioned that the police disciplinary system needed time to
carry out thorough investigations.

``To conclude that these officers or any American committed a crime
without due process is inconsistent with the fundamental fairness that
underlies our judicial system,'' Mr. Longani said.

The Police Benevolent Association, the union that represents most
N.Y.P.D. officers, declined to comment on the videos.

The episodes in the videos The Times reviewed were spread across 15
neighborhoods in three boroughs. Several videos each were taken June 3
in Cadman Plaza in Brooklyn and on June 4 in Mott Haven in the Bronx,
when officers
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/nyregion/police-kettling-protests-nyc.html}{kettled}''
protesters into tight spaces and then beat them with batons.

Philip M. Stinson, a Bowling Green State University criminologist and
former police officer who studies the use of force by the police,
offered a blunt assessment of the behavior shown in these videos.

``A lot of this was `street justice,''' he said, ``gratuitous acts of
extrajudicial violence doled out by police officers on the street to
teach somebody a lesson.''

Sometimes, the police went after people already in custody.

A person is being led away when an officer throws them to the ground.May
30, Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Lauren Mitchell

Sometimes officers went after people they did not appear interested in
arresting at all.

An officer grabs someone from behind and throws the person into a parked
car, where they appear to hit their head. Another officer steps over the
person's immobile body.May 29, 67 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn. Source:
Michael Thoreau

Mr. Stinson said that in some of the videos, the police used force
permissibly. He saw nothing inappropriate, for example, in this widely
viewed video of officers using batons on people who appeared to be
trying to evade arrest.

Officers repeatedly hit two people with batons. Another officer pushes
someone to the ground.May 29, Barclays Center, Brooklyn. Source: Jon
Campbell

In many other videos, though, he said he believed that force had been
applied without discipline or supervision.

``Some of the stuff that they do is so sloppy,'' he said. ``Some of it
is just downright criminal.''

Scott Hechinger, a public defender for nearly a decade in Brooklyn, said
he found it striking that being filmed by crowds of protesters did not
seem to inhibit some officers' conduct.

``That the police were able and willing to perform such brazen violence
when surrounded by cellphone cameras and when the whole world was
watching at this moment more than any other, underscores how police feel
and know they will never be held to account in any meaningful way even
for the most egregious acts of violence,'' Mr. Hechinger said.

Many of the videos show violence led by officers in white shirts,
signaling a rank of lieutenant or higher.

In Manhattan on June 2, one commander shoved a protester and another
pulled her down by the hair.

A white-shirted officer pushes one person down, and then shoves another.
A second officer grabs a protester by the hair to bring her to the
ground.June 2, 17 Battery Place, Manhattan. Source: Brandon Remmert

A civil rights lawyer with the legal aid group the Bronx Defenders, Jenn
Rolnick Borchetta, said she saw violations of constitutional rights in
nearly all the videos, including the rights to free speech and due
process.

``The primary question is whether the force is reasonable, but you have
to remember, if they're not arresting someone, they shouldn't be using
any force,'' Ms. Borchetta said.

At several protests, the police used bicycles as weapons.

Two officers lift their bicycles and push them repeatedly into a group
of people, knocking one person over.May 28, Union Square, Manhattan.
Source: Requested anonymity

More often, they used their hands.

An officer shoves two people, and one falls to the ground.May 29, DeKalb
and Classon Avenues, Brooklyn. Source: Requested anonymity

The protests, and the outcry over the policing of them, have already led
to changes. State legislators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/nyregion/50a-repeal-police-floyd.html}{overturned
a law} that kept police discipline records secret and New York City
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/nyregion/nypd-budget.html}{cut
its police budget} and
\href{https://www.gothamgazette.com/city/9555-police-commissioner-shea-repeatedly-contradicts-mayor-de-blasio-nypd}{broadened
a ban on chokeholds}. Last week, New York's attorney general, Letitia
James,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/nyregion/letitia-james-nypd-reforms.html}{called
for an independent commission} to permanently oversee the Police
Department.

But acts of force by the police are
\href{https://twitter.com/ScooterCasterNY/status/1282464495839981569}{still
being caught on video}, more than six weeks into the protests.

Axel Hernandez, a high school teacher in New York City who on June 3
filmed an
officer\href{https://twitter.com/Axelohh/status/1268649155595055104}{}\href{https://twitter.com/Axelohh/status/1268649155595055104}{throwing
someone down by the neck}, said he felt it was important to continue to
keep watch over the police.

``Part of the reason we're out here is because they were on George
Floyd's neck,'' said Mr. Hernandez, 30. ``This is exactly why we are
protesting in the first place.''

\hypertarget{see-the-full-set-of-videos}{%
\subsubsection{See the full set of
videos.}\label{see-the-full-set-of-videos}}

\hypertarget{the-times-sought-and-verified-videos-of-police-use-of-force-at-protests-in-new-york-city-from-may-28-to-june-6-the-following-videos-were-compiled-from-times-reporting-and-lists-shared-by-t-greg-doucette-corin-faife-a-crowd-sourced-effort-started-on-reddit-and-public-responses-to-requests-by-the-new-york-attorney-generals-office-and-the-citys-civilian-complaint-review-board-some-are-being-made-public-for-the-first-time-these-videos-are-not-an-exhaustive-accounting-of-police-behavior-at-the-protests-they-have-been-edited-for-length-and-in-some-cases-slowed-down-or-annotated-for-clarity-but-are-otherwise-unaltered}{%
\paragraph{\texorpdfstring{The Times sought and verified videos of
police use of force at protests in New York City from May 28 to June 6.
The following videos were compiled from Times reporting and lists shared
by \href{https://twitter.com/greg_doucette}{T. Greg Doucette},
\href{https://twitter.com/corintxt}{Corin Faife}, a
\href{https://github.com/2020PB/police-brutality}{crowd-sourced effort}
started on Reddit and public responses to requests by the New York
attorney general's office and the city's Civilian Complaint Review
Board. Some are being made public for the first time. These videos are
not an exhaustive accounting of police behavior at the protests. They
have been edited for length and in some cases slowed down or annotated
for clarity but are otherwise
unaltered.}{The Times sought and verified videos of police use of force at protests in New York City from May 28 to June 6. The following videos were compiled from Times reporting and lists shared by T. Greg Doucette, Corin Faife, a crowd-sourced effort started on Reddit and public responses to requests by the New York attorney general's office and the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board. Some are being made public for the first time. These videos are not an exhaustive accounting of police behavior at the protests. They have been edited for length and in some cases slowed down or annotated for clarity but are otherwise unaltered.}}\label{the-times-sought-and-verified-videos-of-police-use-of-force-at-protests-in-new-york-city-from-may-28-to-june-6-the-following-videos-were-compiled-from-times-reporting-and-lists-shared-by-t-greg-doucette-corin-faife-a-crowd-sourced-effort-started-on-reddit-and-public-responses-to-requests-by-the-new-york-attorney-generals-office-and-the-citys-civilian-complaint-review-board-some-are-being-made-public-for-the-first-time-these-videos-are-not-an-exhaustive-accounting-of-police-behavior-at-the-protests-they-have-been-edited-for-length-and-in-some-cases-slowed-down-or-annotated-for-clarity-but-are-otherwise-unaltered}}

\hypertarget{may-28}{%
\subsection{May 28}\label{may-28}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197641/0_id115-640w_15.jpg}

 Union Square, Manhattan

 An officer grabs someone by their backpack, and several officers engage
in a struggle as other people join to pull the person away.

Source: \href{https://twitter.com/NY1/status/1266159669262893057}{NY1}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197516/0_id2-640w_17.jpg}

 Union Square, Manhattan

 Two officers lift their bicycles and push them repeatedly into a group
of people, knocking one person over.

Source: Requested anonymity

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197507/0_id1-640w_8.jpg}

 Union Square East and East 17th Street, Manhattan

 An officer hits someone in the leg with a baton, and the baton breaks.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/ShimonPro/status/1266136557871869952}{Shimon
Prokupecz}

\hypertarget{may-29}{%
\subsection{May 29}\label{may-29}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594687379/nycdsa-640w_1.jpg}

 Tompkins and Lexington Avenues, Brooklyn

 Two officers use a baton and hands to shove a person who falls backward
to the pavement.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/nycDSA/status/1266562453686665217}{@nycDSA}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594675373/id164_annote-640w_7.jpg}

 Classon and Putnam Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves a person who falls backward into the street.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/mfstange/status/1266564340381036544}{Mia
Stange}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594083549/0_id159-640w_21.jpg}

 Classon and Lafayette Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves at least three people, one of whom is also shoved in
the chest by a white-shirted officer.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/JohnPhilpNY/status/1266595992427790338}{John
Philp}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/nypd/id139_annote-640w_11_crop.jpg}

 DeKalb and Classon Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves two people, and one falls to the ground.

Source: Requested anonymity

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197634/0_id105-640w_23.jpg}

 67 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn

 An officer grabs someone from behind and throws the person into a
parked car, where they appear to hit their head. Another officer steps
over the person's immobile body.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/AnonymousBrook2/status/1266589590250553345}{Michael
Thoreau}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197621/0_id86-640w_10.jpg}

 Greene and Classon Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer runs up and shoves someone several times, and then shoves a
second and third person standing nearby.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/ZachReports/status/1266557305107202049}{Zach
Williams}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197544/0_id18-640w_2.jpg}

 Fifth Avenue and Bergen Street, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer shoves someone, who falls backward.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/crankberries/status/1266584559245803522}{@crankberries}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197535/0_id12-640w_7.jpg}

 Classon and Lafayette Avenues, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer running down the street shoves a person to the
ground, and then keeps running.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/NickAtNews/status/1266567790095486976}{Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs/The New York Times}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197532/0_id10-640w_14.jpg}

 Flatbush Avenue and Pacific Street, Brooklyn

 A video taken of a cracked cellphone screen shows someone approach an
officer, who then strikes the first person in the face.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/nateschweber/status/1266539107632758784}{Nate
Schweber/The New York Times}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197521/0_id9-640w_4.jpg}

 Classon and Gates Avenues, Brooklyn

 A passenger in a moving unmarked police car opens the car door to
strike someone standing on the street.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/NickAtNews/status/1266537738364477446}{Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs/The New York Times}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197683/0_id5_1-640w_7.jpg}

 Barclays Center, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves a protester, who falls to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/whitney_hu/status/1266540710188195843}{Whitney
Hu}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197518/0_id4-640w_7.jpg}

 Barclays Center, Brooklyn

 Officers repeatedly hit two people with batons. Another officer pushes
someone to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/j0ncampbell/status/1266514356071735296}{Jon
Campbell}

\hypertarget{may-30}{%
\subsection{May 30}\label{may-30}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594577864/annika_schmidt-640w_8.jpg}

 Broadway and East 14th Street, Manhattan

 An officer shoves a person with a baton.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/annikahouse/status/1266931806563176451}{Annika
Schmidt}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594083995/jeancosme-640w_8.jpg}

 Flatbush Avenue Extension and DeKalb Avenue, Brooklyn

 An officer hits a person in the face and knocks them down. The person
gets up and moments later is pepper-sprayed and shoved again. Two more
officers pepper-spray a crowd of people.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/jeancosme/status/1266938900184006656}{Jean-Cosme
Delaloye/JCDe Productions}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1593854703/0_id154-640w_8.jpg}

 Flatbush Avenue Extension and Willoughby Street, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves someone, who pushes back, and a second officer shoves
the person over.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/DonnyMartell/status/1266943106429128711}{Donald
Martell}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/nypd/id151_annote-640w_11_crop.jpg}

 Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn

 A person is being led away when an officer throws them to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/justawren/status/1266945853828280330}{Lauren
Mitchell}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197671/0_id149-640w_15.jpg}

 137 Fourth Avenue, Manhattan

 An officer appears to use a baton to hit a person filming, and then
shoves a second person, who is also carrying a camera. They can be heard
saying they are press.

Source:
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/sami.disu/videos/10219696654859962/}{Sami
Disu}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197552/0_id23-640w_7.jpg}

 Church and Rogers Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer pepper-sprays a crowd after two people in the crowd throw
things at a line of officers.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/PNickCurran/status/1266959923641974784?s=20}{P.
Nick Curran}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197549/0_id22-640w_6.jpg}

 395 Flatbush Avenue Extension, Brooklyn

 An officer runs up and shoves a person who is backing away, then chases
the person down.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/brandon212_/status/1267184037547986944}{Brandon
Scott}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197546/0_id20-640w_5.jpg}

 Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves a protester twice.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/spiccoli/status/1266861960982913030}{Sean
Piccoli/The New York Times}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197542/0_id17-640w_12.jpg}

 Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer pushes through a crowd and grabs a person by the neck to
push them aside. Another officer knocks the person over, and the first
officer throws the person down again when they try to get up.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/BrooklynSpoke/status/1266845497446318081}{Doug
Gordon}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197540/0_id15-640w_4.jpg}

 Bedford and Tilden Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer pulls down a protester's mask and pepper-sprays the person's
face.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/AJRupchandani/status/1266889115288711168}{Anju
J. Rupchandani}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197676/0_id14_0-640w_24.jpg}

 Flatbush and St. Marks Avenues, Brooklyn

 Protesters block the path of a police car and pelt it with garbage. Two
police cars then drive into the crowd, knocking over several people.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/pgarapon/status/1266885414016688134}{@pgarapon}

\hypertarget{may-31}{%
\subsection{May 31}\label{may-31}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594674957/david_siffert-640w_7.jpg}

 Broadway and East 12th Street, Manhattan

 An officer pepper-sprays a crowd, then knocks someone down with an
elbow to the face.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/DavidASiffert/status/1267297196157947904}{David
Siffert}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594412956/id109_annote-640w_12.jpg}

 Barclays Center, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer pushes a protester backward with a baton.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/jangelooff/status/1267288506424066048}{Jake
Offenhartz/WNYC}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197666/0_id144-640w_11.jpg}

 Atlantic Center, Brooklyn

 Someone runs toward a person who is on the ground being detained by
officers, and several people in blue uniforms beat the person on the
ground with batons.

Source: Noah Goldberg/The New York Daily News

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197569/0_id39-640w_19.jpg}

 Atlantic Terminal, Brooklyn

 A group of officers hit a person who is on the ground numerous times
with batons.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/jangelooff/status/1267287782155857923}{Jake
Offenhartz/WNYC}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197566/0_id35-640w_1.jpg}

 Fourth Avenue and Pacific Street, Brooklyn

 An officer pushes a protester whose hands are up. The protester falls
backward over a garbage bag.

Source: Andy Newman/The New York Times

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197564/0_id34-640w_3.jpg}

 F.D.R. Drive and Houston Street, Manhattan

 An officer walks along a roadway pepper-spraying protesters.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/CPolanco18/status/1267129751975706624}{Carlos
Polanco}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197562/0_id28-640w_36.jpg}

 Canal and Greene Streets, Manhattan

 An officer shoves a protester with a riot shield, the protester shoves
back, and a second officer hits the protester on the head with a baton.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/GwynneFitz/status/1267267195870097413}{Gwynne
Hogan/WNYC}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197559/0_id27-640w_12.jpg}

 Church and Canal Streets, Manhattan

 Officers rush a crowd and knock down a protester whose hands are up. A
white-shirted officer drags another protester on the asphalt.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/drivenbyboredom/status/1267263490009546753}{Nate
Igor Smith}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197557/0_id26-640w_23.jpg}

 Barclays Center, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer shoves a protester with a baton and hits a
protester in the face.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/Noah__Goldberg/status/1267285022031130625}{Noah
Goldberg/The New York Daily News}

\hypertarget{june-1}{%
\subsection{June 1}\label{june-1}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1593854699/0_id152-640w_4.jpg}

 41 East 57th Street, Manhattan

 An officer running by a group of bystanders pepper-sprays them and
keeps running.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/AaronCSBlanton/status/1267676238635769859}{Aaron
Blanton}

\hypertarget{june-2}{%
\subsection{June 2}\label{june-2}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197661/0_id140-640w_7.jpg}

 West and Rector Streets, Manhattan

 An officer approaches someone with a bicycle, striking the person in
the legs with a baton.

Source: Requested anonymity

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197654/0_id136-640w_12.jpg}

 17 Battery Place, Manhattan

 A white-shirted officer pushes one person down, and then shoves
another. A second officer grabs a protester by the hair to bring her to
the ground.

Source:
\href{twitter.com/protest_nyc/status/1268248720291893248}{Brandon
Remmert}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197651/0_id131-640w_8.jpg}

 West and Rector Streets, Manhattan

 An officer orders someone to put down a bicycle. The protester is then
shoved to the ground before another officer approaches and pushes the
protester's head toward the pavement.

Source: Requested anonymity

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197646/0_id118-640w_7.jpg}

 West and Morris Streets, Manhattan

 A protester is on the ground surrounded by multiple officers. An
officer then strikes the person in the legs with a baton.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/awinston/status/1267975128324898818}{Ali
Winston}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197582/0_id50-640w_3.jpg}

 60 West Street, Manhattan

 An officer and a protester appear to bump into each other, and the
officer punches the protester in the head.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/beustmode/status/1268190262355988481}{Ben
Eustace}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197579/0_id49-640w_20.jpg}

 Fourth and Atlantic Avenues, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves a protester to the ground and shoves a cyclist. The
same officer then body-slams a third person to the pavement.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/altochulo/status/1268008988211400704}{Daniel
Altschuler}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197574/0_id46-640w_9.jpg}

 Fourth and Atlantic Avenues, Brooklyn

 Several officers chase down and beat a person with their batons. A
white-shirted officer runs up and steps on the person's neck.

Source: Allison McCann/The New York Times

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197572/0_id45-640w_13.jpg}

 Fifth Avenue and East 83rd Street, Manhattan

 An officer walks into a crowd to grab someone from behind and pull them
to the ground. A second officer throws a second person to the ground.

Source: Requested anonymity

\hypertarget{june-3}{%
\subsection{June 3}\label{june-3}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197688/0_id147-320w_1.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 An officer punches someone on the ground.

Source: Meghann Perez

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197656/0_id137-640w_16.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves someone on a bicycle. Another officer shoves someone
from behind. A third officer shoves another person from behind.

Source: Casey Correa

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197603/0_id62-640w_8.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 An officer approaches a person walking with a bicycle, grabs the
cyclist around the neck and pushes them to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/Axelohh/status/1268649155595055104}{Axel
Hernandez}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197601/0_id61-640w_3.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 Three officers use riot shields to shove a protester who is astride a
bike, and the protester falls down.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/Axelohh/status/1268648944269242369}{Axel
Hernandez}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197598/0_id60-640w_4.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves a protester with a baton and the protester falls
backward.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/mattieump/status/1269094834926649349}{Mattie
Barber-Bockelman}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197593/0_id58-640w_2.jpg}

 Cadman Plaza, Brooklyn

 A protester states that someone is injured. Officers shove their way
through the group and push at least two people to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://www.instagram.com/tv/CA_odIIjXCM/?igshid=1x9dd6psx40tj}{Don
P. Hooper}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197587/0_id56-640w_10.jpg}

 54th Street and Lexington Avenue, Manhattan

 An officer tries to restrain a protester who is holding on to a
bicycle. The officer drags the protester, and the bicycle, until both
fall to the ground.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/SikhProf/status/1268350274424508417}{Simran
Jeet Singh}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197584/0_id55-640w_10.jpg}

 Third Avenue and 50th Street, Manhattan

 Multiple officers, including one in a white shirt, hit a cyclist with
their batons.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/joshfoxfilm/status/1268366550475603969}{Karla
Moreno}

\hypertarget{june-4}{%
\subsection{June 4}\label{june-4}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1593854701/0_id153-640w_3.jpg}

 Washington Avenue and Fulton Street, Brooklyn

 An officer grabs someone, then shoves another person twice into a car.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/Axelohh/status/1268750326150111232}{Axel
Hernandez}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197669/0_id145-320w_3.jpg}

 Flushing and Marcy Avenues, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer shoves a person on a bicycle.

Source: David Colombini

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1593854669/id126_annote-640w_22.jpg}

 East 136th Street and Brook Avenue, Bronx

 Multiple officers strike a group of protesters with their batons.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/ghouldisco/status/1268872802708357122}{Jordan
Jackson}; Daniel Maiuri

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197644/0_id116-640w_0.jpg}

 East 136th Street and Brook Avenue, Bronx

 An officer throws a protester to the ground to arrest the protester.
Another person then interferes with the arresting officer. The officer
turns, hits the person and shoves him.

Source: \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eXceGpFwVEE}{Ray Mendez}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197629/0_id97-640w_7.jpg}

 East 136th Street and Brook Avenue, Bronx

 A protester whose hands are up is saying something. An officer walks
over and shoves the protester.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/jangelooff/status/1268698274371944451}{Jake
Offenhartz/WNYC}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197616/0_id80-640w_9.jpg}

 Lee Avenue and Heyward Street, Brooklyn

 An officer punches a person on the ground several times.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/OLIVERIVARD/status/1268763639772839936}{Oliver
Rivard}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197614/0_id75-640w_6.jpg}

 East 136th Street and Brook Avenue, Bronx

 Officers flip a legal observer for the National Lawyers Guild to the
ground and arrest her.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/jangelooff/status/1270105416689750016}{Shaquille
Roberts and Conrad Blackburn}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197690/0_id74-640w_4.jpg}

 Washington Avenue and Fulton Street, Brooklyn

 A white-shirted officer uses a baton to strike a person on a bike.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/johnknefel/status/1268736946031001607}{John
Knefel}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197611/0_id73-320w_12.jpg}

 Washington Avenue and Fulton Street, Brooklyn

 Two white-shirted officers walking with a crowd grab and shove someone
in the crowd.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/NoahHurowitz/status/1268726877679738886}{Noah
Hurowitz}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197608/0_id70-640w_26.jpg}

 East 136th Street and Brook Avenue, Bronx

 A person says something to a white-shirted officer. The officer shoves
the person over with a baton.

Source:
\href{https://twitter.com/AndomForNY/status/1269065999048941569}{Andom
Ghebreghiorgis}

\hypertarget{june-5}{%
\subsection{June 5}\label{june-5}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/06/1593197619/0_id85-640w_15.jpg}

 885 Nostrand Avenue, Brooklyn

 An officer shoves someone on a bicycle, who falls over.

Source: Requested anonymity

\hypertarget{june-6}{%
\subsection{June 6}\label{june-6}}

\includegraphics{//int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/videotape/finished/2020/07/1594404770/id-87_annote-1-640w_12.jpg}

 Nassau and Gold Streets, Brooklyn

 A person is tackled to the ground by a group of officers and punched in
the head multiple times.

Source: \href{https://vimeo.com/426847270}{Mike Hassell}

Troy Closson contributed reporting.

\textbf{Correction:}~July 15, 2020

Two captions in an earlier version of this article misstated the
locations in Manhattan of two videos' filming. One was at Fifth Avenue
and East 83rd Street, not Bryant Park, and the other~was at 41 East 57th
Street, not West 57th Street and Sixth Avenue.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
