Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/dealbook}{DealBook}\textbar{}What Would
Microsoft Do With TikTok?

\url{https://nyti.ms/33s2xey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

DealBook Business and Policy

DealBook Newsletter

\hypertarget{what-would-microsoft-do-with-tiktok}{%
\section{What Would Microsoft Do With
TikTok?}\label{what-would-microsoft-do-with-tiktok}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/business/03db-newslettertiktok/merlin_175237974_b8a81d01-c2eb-4b1f-a51d-26bc593e6219-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Our next DealBook Debrief call is with Nikole Hannah-Jones, the
creator of The 1619 Project, who will discuss racial injustice and
corporate America, as well as take your questions.}
\emph{\href{https://timesevents.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/dealbookdebrief0806}{\emph{R.S.V.P.
here to join the call}}} \emph{\emph{on Thursday, Aug. 6 at 11 a.m.
Eastern. And a programming note: DealBook is taking a short summer
break, so you'll next hear from us on Wednesday --- and then we hope to
see you on the call on Thursday --- before normal service resumes next
week. (Was this email forwarded to you?}}
\href{http://p.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/email/re?location=hdaNaYedr2/IomeWRKt0nffrak8aSGLbQgZx2X6d46QTPfqP1YU5VFs7ogbYiA6geS/dWohdr/Cx4ICfruKKr2xWO3SrRrXz/UnL21ee4RfTsG6Iu6Pi4Vkjv2FNF/lShp8PWKHi4Hr3K9P4/20g1T7hdv9TGo4mWrWdQtjWltpAYrgkCWi4BUsjOsCggHxLuH78WvYURHt22PZDz5BTHU4Eoe8mhdVMdiIkF990xuDQn5eAZPep+/pyFTL/tvm10WIUAo7GiLm9BxSf48VWkcf32z4mKIynkgqkqPLcwrXrPfY6X6/90c1ST1rGGrmJnRt6JgODhB2PXERgSBxx0HiQjPczGK0FdRZfUpCZnJM3hkVVWY5pBphIWP4l17u/+7gnJoDxda0LOMJqbKXNrv72oJVMfG+5UYYab3+1pzaVxdgaCxNityNQ46NiCJL5UelWrB2wIT53X4SLL93iP/AfyDtqFhF2dL2Q47tnvHslU1eZCU05+P4/1mWonIWQ5nZ6aKGnW42FfyL2sEuvM9pqFUwGCW86ZeoCmEOm619h7Iq+egrxxNmh3gt3ZmpVQnOFMTCq2g929XZGwgQ/2dhV26lso+m/\&campaign_id=0\&instance_id=0\&segment_id=0\&user_id=f4577a56bcf773214e9a1d55b5fe9d24\&regi_id=0nl=dealbook\&emc=edit_dk_20180529}{\emph{Sign
up here}}\emph{.)}

\hypertarget{that-escalated-quickly}{%
\subsection{That escalated quickly}\label{that-escalated-quickly}}

At the end of last week, it seemed that TikTok's days in the U.S. were
numbered. ``As far as TikTok is concerned, we're banning them from the
United States,'' President Trump said on Friday of the hugely popular
social network, which his administration considers a national security
risk because of its Chinese ownership.

But behind the scenes, Microsoft was exploring a takeover bid for
TikTok's American operations, which gained traction thanks to lobbying
from some of the president's top advisers and Republican lawmakers.

\textbf{Satya Nadella and Mr. Trump spoke on Sunday}, and it appears
that the phone conversation bought the Microsoft chief time to flesh out
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/business/economy/trump-tiktok-china-national-security.html}{the
potential acquisition}, The Times's Mike Isaac, Ana Swanson and Maggie
Haberman report. The president had dismissed rumors of Microsoft's
interest in a deal as a way to avoid shutting down TikTok, saying, ``We
are not an M\&A country.''

\textbf{Now, Microsoft has six weeks to seal a deal} for TikTok, which
says it has 100 million users in the U.S. In a
\href{https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2020/08/02/microsoft-to-continue-discussions-on-potential-tiktok-purchase-in-the-united-states/}{statement},
Microsoft said it would ``move quickly'' to pursue a deal with TikTok's
parent, Beijing-based ByteDance, aiming to wrap it up by Sept. 15.
Microsoft will conduct ``a complete security review'' of the company, it
said, and pledged to keep all American users' data within the U.S. and
sever any connections to systems abroad.

‚Ä¢ Over the weekend, top White House advisers like Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin and Larry Kudlow, the chief of the National Economic
Council, argued the merits of a purchase by Microsoft to Mr. Trump, and
enlisted lawmakers like the Republican Senators John Cornyn, Lindsey
Graham and Marco Rubio to weigh in. The risk of angering TikTok's young
user base with a shutdown in the run-up to the election
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/style/tiktok-ban-threat-trump.html}{was
another consideration}.

‚Ä¢ On the other side, Peter Navarro, the White House's top trade adviser,
pushed for a TikTok ban as a means to punish China in the escalating
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/business/dealbook/china-us-rivalry.html}{tech
cold war} between Washington and Beijing.

\textbf{How much will it cost?} Last week, a group of investors,
including Sequoia Capital and General Atlantic, floated a \$50 billion
bid for TikTok,
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-bytedance-tiktok-exclusive/exclusive-bytedance-investors-value-tiktok-at-50-billion-in-takeover-bid-sources-idUSKCN24U1M9}{according
to Reuters}. Microsoft is interested only in TikTok's businesses in the
U.S., Australia, Canada and New Zealand, and may invite other ``American
investors'' to take minority stakes.

‚Ä¢ The time pressure, and alternative of a shut down, may give Microsoft
the upper hand in negotiations with ByteDance. But the Chinese company
does not seem resigned to a forced sale: In
\href{https://www.bloombergquint.com/business/bytedance-ceo-letter-working-overtime-on-u-s-tiktok-solution}{a
letter to employees} today, ByteDance's C.E.O., Zhang Yiming, said he
disagreed with the order to sell its American operations and stressed
that no decisions about TikTok's fate had been made. ``The attention of
the outside world and rumors around TikTok might last for a while,'' he
wrote.

‚Ä¢ What is certain is that TikTok's valuation is many times higher than
the \$1 billion it cost in 2017 to buy its predecessor, Musical.ly. At
the end of June, Microsoft had just over \$136 billion in cash.

\textbf{What's in it for Microsoft?} ``The fickle infatuation of
tweens,'' The Times's Karen Weise
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/tiktok-microsoft-tweens.html}{writes}.
More seriously, taking over TikTok would give the tech giant ``control
of one of the largest and most influential social networks in the
country.'' If a deal gets done, it could go a few different ways:

‚Ä¢ A transformative Microsoft-TikTok tie up could create meaningful
competition for Facebook and Google, leveraging other Microsoft brands
like LinkedIn, Minecraft and Xbox. But at a time when Big Tech is under
attack for its market dominance, it is surprising to see the White House
push TikTok --- inadvertently or not --- into the arms of one of the
largest companies in the world. Slack recently accused Microsoft of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/technology/slack-microsoft-antitrust.html}{anticompetitive
behavior}.

‚Ä¢ Microsoft's experience with consumer businesses is mixed, so the
successful stewardship of TikTok is not assured --- think of the search
engine Bing or the ill-fated takeover of Nokia's smartphone business.
And in June, Microsoft said it was shutting down Mixer, a
video-game-streaming platform, and closing all of its retail stores.

‚Ä¢ The biggest risk, perhaps, is for the rest of Microsoft. Will the
company's management need to devote so much attention to TikTok and its
attendant political issues that it distracts from its
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/22/microsoft-msft-earnings-q4-2020.html}{very
profitable} core of serving business customers?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/business/03db-newsletterspacex/merlin_175243851_9c338325-df51-4da4-827d-bea93d3b3806-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{heres-what-is-happening}{%
\subsection{Here's what is happening}\label{heres-what-is-happening}}

\textbf{More than 100 current and former C.E.O.s called for more aid to
small businesses in the U.S.}
\href{https://www.howardschultz.com/lettertocongress/}{The letter}, sent
to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Monday morning, was organized by
the former Starbucks chief Howard Schultz with the support of Senators
Michael Bennet and Todd Young, a Democrat and a Republican,
respectively. It is signed by the likes of the Walmart C.E.O. Doug
McMillon, Alphabet's Sundar Pichai and Disney's Bob Chapek. The letter
calls for ``federally guaranteed loans, at favorable terms, that will
enable small businesses to transform and sustain themselves through 2020
and well into 2021.''

\textbf{The NASA astronauts in a SpaceX capsule have returned to Earth.}
After a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/science/spacex-nasa-return.html}{64-day
trip} to orbit --- the first crewed mission by a private company --- the
capsule splashed safely into the Gulf of Mexico yesterday. ``We are
entering a new era of human spaceflight,'' Jim Bridenstine, the NASA
administrator, said at a news conference.

\textbf{HSBC reported a bigger-than-expected drop in profits}, with loan
losses and low interest rates
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/business-53633550}{weighing on its
results}. It also upped its forecast for bad debts and said it would
resume a restructuring that involves 35,000 job cuts, part of a plan to
shrink its U.S. and European operations that was put on pause during the
pandemic.

\hypertarget{the-week-ahead}{%
\subsection{The week ahead}\label{the-week-ahead}}

ü§ù American lawmakers are haggling over a \textbf{new stimulus bill},
with the shape of supplemental jobless benefits --- which expired last
week ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-jobless-aid.html}{the
biggest sticking point}. Democrats are pushing for a \$3 trillion
package that extends many of the previous measures, while Republicans
have aimed for a narrower bill worth around \$1 trillion.

üó£ It's another busy week for earnings, with more than 100 S\&P 500
companies reporting their latest quarterly results. The highlights
include \textbf{BP}, \textbf{Diageo}, \textbf{Disney} and \textbf{KKR}
on Tuesday; \textbf{CVS} and \textbf{Moderna} on Wednesday;
\textbf{Uber} on Thursday; and \textbf{Berkshire Hathaway} on Saturday.

üì± Today, \textbf{Google} is expected to unveil its
\href{https://9to5google.com/2020/08/02/google-pixel-5g-teaser-leak/}{latest
Pixel smartphone}. On Wednesday, \textbf{Samsung} announces its latest
line of
\href{https://www.cnet.com/news/samsung-galaxy-note-20-rumor-roundup-leaks-before-samsung-unpacked/}{phones,
tablets and watches}. Most of these gadgets will be able to connect to
5G networks, if only more of those were available.

üìà A crucial \textbf{U.S. jobs report} on Friday will reveal whether
improvements in hiring in May and June continued in July. Weekly data on
unemployment claims
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html}{haven't
been encouraging}, but economists still predict that the economy added
around 1.6 million jobs last month (on average, with huge variations in
forecasts).

\textbf{üóì From The TimesMachine:} On Aug. 3, 1981, the U.S. air traffic
controllers' union
\href{https://timesmachine.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/timesmachine/1981/08/03/217361.html?pageNumber=1}{called
a nationwide strike} after talks faltered with the federal government
over pay, hours and working conditions. More than 10,000 workers walked
out, despite the Reagan administration's threat of ``no amnesty'' for
strikers. Two days later, the president summarily fired all who refused
to return to work,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/11/06/business/collision-course-looks-at-reagan-vs-patco.html}{a
watershed moment} that significantly altered the balance of power
between employers and workers.

Image

Credit...The New York Times

\hypertarget{venture-fund-raising-is-alive-and-relatively-well}{%
\subsection{Venture fund-raising is alive and (relatively)
well}\label{venture-fund-raising-is-alive-and-relatively-well}}

The coronavirus has made it more difficult for entrepreneurs to raise
money. But for many companies --- from established businesses to smaller
start-ups --- the pandemic hasn't prevented them from finding investors
willing to open their wallets.

\textbf{TransferWise recently raised \$319 million in a secondary deal,}
in which existing shareholders will sell some of their holdings in the
European fintech company.
\href{https://techcrunch.com/2020/07/28/transferwise-five-unicorns/}{The
transaction} values TransferWise at about \$5 billion, a
\href{https://www.forbes.com/sites/samshead/2019/05/22/transferwise-valued-at-35-billion-as-founders-sell-stake/}{nearly
43 percent bump} from last year. Kristo Kaarmann, the company's C.E.O.,
told Michael that TransferWise, which was founded in 2011, didn't
\emph{need} to raise money, since it has been profitable for three years
now. But it saw an opportunity for older investors and long-tenured
employees to sell some of their stakes.

\textbf{Smaller companies aren't afraid to embark on fund-raising
either}, even if the pandemic has changed the way they court potential
investors.

‚Ä¢
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/07/27/ro-raises-200-million-at-1point5-billion-valuation-250-million-sales.html}{Ro},
a telehealth start-up, said last week that it had raised \$200 million
in new funding.

‚Ä¢ \href{https://gro-intelligence.com/}{Gro Intelligence}, which uses
artificial intelligence to gather agricultural data, is in the process
of raising an ``opportunistic'' Series B round with a target of \$50
million, its founder and C.E.O., Sara Menker, told Michael.

‚Ä¢ \href{http://shield.ai/}{Shield AI}, which makes A.I. software and
autonomous drones for the military and law enforcement, recently kicked
off its latest round of fund-raising.

\textbf{It has taken time for investors to get comfortable, well,
investing.} Venture deals in the second quarter in the U.S., Europe and
Asia were all down from the same time last year, but up from the
previous quarter,
\href{https://t.yesware.com/tt/e001b3127892bff3127c5684106b4fface2be613/6d096e53b8a44a013ebee1131ad0c628/67276689dfad2ab3eddda9aeeb223346/www.cbinsights.com/research/report/venture-capital-q2-2020/}{according
to PwC and CB Insights}. ``There's obviously a lot more gun-shyness,''
Ms. Menker of Gro Intelligence said, with many venture capitalists
initially focused on protecting existing portfolio companies rather than
striking new deals.

Image

\textbf{They are now more willing to put money to work}, said Ryan
Tseng, a co-founder and the C.E.O. of Shield AI. That came with
acceptance that Zoom calls, virtual due diligence and other pandemic-era
practices are here to stay.

\textbf{Existing relationships with investors don't hurt.}
TransferWise's round was co-led by a current backer, Lone Pine Capital,
and Mr. Kaarmann said his company had formed relationships with new
investors in the round, D1 and Vulcan. Ms. Menker said that Gro
Intelligence had already signed commitments from its existing investors,
including TPG and GGV. For companies without these connections, it will
be harder to build the relationships that lead to funding, but perhaps
not as hard as it was a few months ago.

\hypertarget{the-speed-read}{%
\subsection{The speed read}\label{the-speed-read}}

\textbf{Deals}

‚Ä¢
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/business/tailored-brands-mens-wearhouse-bankruptcy.html}{Tailored
Brands}, the owner of the clothing chains Men's Wearhouse and JoS. A.
Bank, and the department store company
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/business/Lord-and-Taylor-Bankruptcy.html}{Lord
\& Taylor} became the latest retailers to file for bankruptcy
protection. (NYT)

‚Ä¢ Siemens Healthineers bought Varian Medical Systems for more than \$16
billion, in the biggest health care deal of the year.
(\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-08-01/siemens-healthineers-said-to-near-15-billion-purchase-of-varian?sref=0w5HLLb3}{Bloomberg})

‚Ä¢ Marathon Petroleum sold its Speedway network of gas stations for \$21
billion to 7-Eleven, raising the chain's store count in North America to
around 14,000.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/business/marathon-petroleum-speedway-7-11.html}{NYT})

\textbf{Politics and policy}

‚Ä¢ The president of the Minneapolis Fed said it might be necessary to
``lock down really hard'' for up to six weeks for the sake of the
economy.
(\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/transcript-neel-kashkari-on-face-the-nation-august-2-2020/}{CBS
News})

‚Ä¢ Deutsche Bank has opened an internal investigation into the personal
banker of President Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, over a 2013
real estate transaction with a company part-owned by Mr. Kushner.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/business/kushner-deutsche-trump-rosemary-vrablic.html}{NYT})

\textbf{Tech}

‚Ä¢ The 17-year-old in Tampa who masterminded a huge Twitter hack got his
start in Minecraft scams.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/technology/florida-teenager-twitter-hack.html}{NYT})

\textbf{Best of the rest}

‚Ä¢ The lab run by a billionaire Indian family is producing hundreds of
millions of doses of a potential Covid-19 vaccine that is in trials.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/asia/coronavirus-vaccine-india.html?smid=tw-nytimesbusiness\&smtyp=cur}{NYT})

‚Ä¢ Inside the South China Morning Post, ``a newsroom at the edge of
autocracy.''
(\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2020/08/scmp-hong-kong-china-media/614719/}{The
Atlantic})

‚Ä¢ Laundromats are having a liquidity crisis, so to speak, as a national
coin shortage makes quarters hard to find.
(\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-08-01/coin-shortage-u-s-laundromats-are-running-out-of-quarters?cmpid=socialflow-twitter-business\&utm_campaign=socialflow-organic\&utm_source=twitter\&utm_content=business\&utm_medium=social\&sref=0w5HLLb3}{Bloomberg
Businessweek})

\emph{We'd love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to}
\href{mailto:dealbook@NYTimes.com?subject=Newsletter\%20Feedback}{\emph{dealbook@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
