Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}W.H.O. Declares Global Emergency
as Wuhan Coronavirus Spreads

\url{https://nyti.ms/2RER70M}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d1630-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d3d40-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d3d41-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d3d42-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d3d43-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3d2d3d44-e3a7-11ea-974d-d37311179bca}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{who-declares-global-emergency-as-wuhan-coronavirus-spreads}{%
\section{W.H.O. Declares Global Emergency as Wuhan Coronavirus
Spreads}\label{who-declares-global-emergency-as-wuhan-coronavirus-spreads}}

The announcement came as nearly 10,000 cases have been reported
worldwide.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/30/world/30who-decision01/30who-decision01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sui-lee-wee}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/13/multimedia/author-sui-lee-wee/author-sui-lee-wee-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/donald-g-mcneil-jr}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-donald-g-mcneil-jr/author-donald-g-mcneil-jr-thumbLarge-v4.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/javier-c-hernandez}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/22/multimedia/author-javier-c-hernandez/author-javier-c-hernandez-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sui-lee-wee}{Sui-Lee
Wee},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/donald-g-mcneil-jr}{Donald
G. McNeil Jr.} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/javier-c-hernandez}{Javier
C. Hern√°ndez}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 30, 2020Updated April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The World Health Organization declared a global health emergency on
Thursday as the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/health/WHO-Trump-coronavirus.html}{coronavirus}
outbreak spread well beyond China, where it emerged last month.

The move reversed the organization's decision just a week ago to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/health/china-virus-who-emergency.html}{hold
off such a declaration}. Since then, there have been thousands of new
cases in China and clear evidence of human-to-human transmission
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/29/health/china-coronavirus-outbreak.html}{in
several other countries}, including the United States.

All of which warranted a reconsideration by the W.H.O.'s emergency
committee, officials said.

The declaration ``is not a vote of no confidence in China,'' said Tedros
Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the W.H.O.'s director-general. ``On the contrary,
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/health/WHO-Trump-coronavirus.html}{W.H.O.}
continues to have confidence in China's capacity to control the
outbreak.''

The declaration comes now, he said, because of fears that the
coronavirus may reach countries with weak health care systems, where it
could run amok, potentially infecting millions of people and killing
thousands.

Following the declaration, the State Department on Thursday night
\href{https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/china-travel-advisory.html}{warned
travelers to avoid China altogether}.

China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, said that the
country ``is fully confident and capable of winning the battle against
this epidemic.''

In a statement on the ministry's website, she added that China was
willing to continue to work with the W.H.O. and other countries to
safeguard public health.

The W.H.O.'s declaration --- officially called a ``public health
emergency of international concern'' --- does not have the force of law.

The agency is governed by an annual convocation of the health ministers
of all U.N. countries, and its role is only to offer advice. Governments
then make their own decisions about how they protect themselves.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T11:05:09.310Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

States of emergency are ``merely guidance,'' said Dr. David L. Heymann,
a former W.H.O. assistant director-general who now analyzes the work of
the agency's emergency committee. Governments and even private companies
``may or may not follow it.''

Nonetheless, emergency declarations signal that the world's top health
advisory body thinks the situation is grave. Many scientific experts
welcomed the decision.

The public health emergency ``allows them to further lean into the role
of global leadership for governments and the private sector,'' said Dr.
Thomas R. Frieden, the former director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and a veteran of several global health
emergencies.

The first goal, he said, should be to understand more about how the
virus is spreading --- whether mostly in hospitals and clinics, what
ages and sexes or professions are most affected, how sick they become
and what risk factors are dangerous.

But Amir Attaran, a professor of law and epidemiology at the University
of Ottawa and a frequent W.H.O. critic, called the declaration
``inexcusably late.'' The committee's reasoning that it lacked enough
scientific evidence to declare an emergency last week was
``balderdash,'' he added.

``W.H.O. is paralyzed for the same political reasons that ruined its
scientific judgment in SARS, Ebola and Zika,'' he said. ``Borders are
closed, aircraft grounded and ships anchored as W.H.O. mutely dithers
over whether or not to declare an emergency.''

``Events have comprehensively overtaken them, proving their uselessness
yet again,'' he added.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/31/multimedia/china-wuhan-coronavirus-maps-promo/china-wuhan-coronavirus-maps-promo-articleLarge-v52.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Declaring emergencies is always a hard decision, Dr. Tedros said on
Wednesday. Border closings and flight cancellations may cause hardships
for millions of healthy people near the epicenter, and enormous economic
disruption.

In the worst cases, supplies of
\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/no-food-crowded-hospitals-wuhan-first-week-in-coronavirus-quarantine-2020-1}{food
and medicine can run short} and panic can spread, threatening to do more
damage than the disease.

Experts at the W.H.O. have lavishly and repeatedly praised China's
response as remarkably aggressive.

The country is building two hospitals, in just two weeks, to house
coronavirus patients. Chinese scientists deposited the genetic signature
of the coronavirus in public databases, greatly speeding the development
of diagnostic tests and, potentially, vaccines.

Chinese authorities cordoned off the major cities at the outbreak's
epicenter, Hubei Province,
\href{https://thehill.com/changing-america/well-being/longevity/479733-more-than-30-million-on-lockdown-amid-coronavirus}{stranding
more than 50 million people} at the height of the Lunar New Year
holidays --- a measure that few other countries could have undertaken.

Whether that massive cordon will prove effective remains to be seen.
Five million people were able to leave Wuhan, the city where the
outbreak began, before its train and bus stations and airports were
closed, the mayor said. There were soon outbreaks across the country.

Dr. Tedros praised the Chinese government, saying it ``is setting a new
standard for outbreak response.'' Other countries should be grateful
that only 98 of the nearly 10,000 cases confirmed so far have occurred
outside China's borders, he said.

Despite the emergency declaration, and despite the State Department's
urging Americans to stay away from China, the W.H.O. opposes
restrictions on travel to China or on trade with it.

Measures the agency considers unwarranted include border closures, visa
restrictions and the quarantining of apparently healthy visitors from
the affected regions, said the chairman of the agency's emergency
committee, Dr. Didier Houssin, an adviser to France's national health
security agency.

Many such measures have already been taken against China by other
countries, and Dr. Houssin said the W.H.O. would question the scientific
rationales behind them.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
‚Ä∫}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Neither he nor Dr. Tedros questioned the decision by the United States
and other countries to evacuate their citizens from China, and they said
the cancellation of flights by airlines was justified if the real reason
was that they had no passengers.

Dr. Tedros, who met with President Xi Jinping in Beijing on Tuesday,
said he was struck by how much Mr. Xi knew about the outbreak and by the
fact that Ma Xiaowei, director of China's National Health Commission,
was on the ground in Wuhan leading the response.

That is not say there haven't been missteps. The W.H.O. last week
described its risk assessment for the outbreak as ``moderate,'' when it
should have said ``high.'' The error was corrected in a footnote to the
agency's report; Dr. Tedros described it on Twitter as a ``human
error.''

Experts in the United States have complained of spotty epidemiological
information from China.

Also, the W.H.O. cannot share information with Taiwan, which now has
eight coronavirus patients, because Taiwan is not a member of the United
Nations.

The agency ``doesn't want to upset its major stakeholders,'' said
Charles Clift, a senior consulting fellow at the Chatham House, an
international affairs research group in London. ``China carries the
political clout that other countries don't.''

And the outbreak seems to accelerating, along with its consequences.
China said on Friday that another 43 people had died from the disease,
bringing the total to 213. No deaths have yet occurred outside China.

On Thursday, Russia closed much of its 2,600-mile border with China and
stopped all train service between the countries, except for a regular
train between Moscow and Beijing. Some airlines, including British
Airways, have stopped flying there; others are greatly reducing their
service.

Within China, some medical experts have questioned their country's
response, arguing that local officials should have imposed stricter
travel restrictions before the virus spilled out of Wuhan. The country
has now confirmed cases in every province and region.

Residents have complained that local authorities kept mum about the
outbreak's severity --- initially insisting that there was no evidence
of person-to-person transmission outside Wuhan --- but admitted the
truth after press reports in Hong Kong.

As the dimensions of the outbreak became clear, the mayor of Wuhan on
Monday offered to resign.

A W.H.O. delegation was allowed to visit Wuhan for just one day. Dr.
Gauden Galea, the organization's representative in Beijing, said the
visit was not intended ``to pass judgment.''

``Everything is being done with a sense of intensity, and to our
assessment, good practice,'' he added. ``I don't want to be an
apologist. You have to understand the large scale and the
comprehensiveness of the operation.''

Following the trip, China agreed to permit international experts
coordinated by the W.H.O. into the country to work with Chinese
scientists on containing the epidemic. The C.D.C. is assembling a team
to join them.

The W.H.O. has made just five emergency declarations since its power to
do so was established in 2005: for the pandemic influenza in 2009; a
polio resurgence in 2014; the Ebola epidemic in West Africa that year;
the Zika virus outbreak in 2016; and an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of Congo last year.

Dr. Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine and one of the discoverers of the Ebola virus and the presence
of AIDS in Africa, agreed with the W.H.O.'s emergency declaration but
felt the process was flawed.

``It is time for the W.H.O. to change its all-or-nothing, binary
approach'' to declaring an emergency, Dr. Piot said. ``In every
emergency, there is a spectrum of alert levels.''

Dr. Tedros expressed the same frustration at a news conference on
Wednesday, suggesting that the agency might need to switch to a
graduated ``green-yellow-red" system.

Austin Ramzy contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Chris Horton from
Taipei. Elsie Chen contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
