Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Senate Confirms Bernhardt as
Interior Secretary Amid Calls for Investigations Into His Conduct

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Z2qtRb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{senate-confirms-bernhardt-as-interior-secretary-amid-calls-for-investigations-into-his-conduct}{%
\section{Senate Confirms Bernhardt as Interior Secretary Amid Calls for
Investigations Into His
Conduct}\label{senate-confirms-bernhardt-as-interior-secretary-amid-calls-for-investigations-into-his-conduct}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/11/climate/11CLI-BERNHARDT/merlin_152726013_34389154-c088-4d29-8b9a-6c20afef4610-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/coral-davenport}{Coral Davenport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 11, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want climate news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here
for}}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Climate
Fwd:}}}\emph{, our email newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- The Senate on Thursday voted to confirm David Bernhardt,
a former lobbyist for the oil and agribusiness industries, as secretary
of the interior. The confirmation of Mr. Bernhardt to his new post
coincided with calls from more than a dozen Democrats and government
watchdogs for formal investigations into his past conduct.

Senators voted 56-41, largely along party lines, in favor of Mr.
Bernhardt's confirmation. Three Democrats --- Senator Joe Manchin of
West Virginia, the senior Democrat on the Senate Energy Committee;
Senator Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona; and Senator Martin Heinrich of New
Mexico --- supported Mr. Bernhardt, as did one independent, Senator
Angus King of Maine.

As interior secretary, Mr. Bernhardt, who has already played a central
role in designing many of Mr. Trump's policies for expanding drilling
and mining, will now serve as the nation's senior steward of its 500
million acres of public land and vast coastal waters.

Mr. Bernhardt was the deputy to Mr. Trump's first interior secretary,
Ryan Zinke, who resigned this year amid
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/15/us/ryan-zinke-interior-secretary.html?module=inline}{allegations
of ethical misconduct.}

At least eight senators, all Democrats, and four government ethics
watchdog groups have requested that the Interior Department's inspector
general open formal investigations into various aspects of Mr.
Bernhardt's conduct. Separately, at least one Democratic senator and one
government watchdog group have requested that the United States
attorney's office investigate whether Mr. Bernhardt may have committed
civil or criminal violations before he joined the Trump administration.

Mr. Bernhardt has testified to Congress that he has made an effort to be
ethical in all his work. ``I believe public trust is a public
responsibility, and maintaining ethical culture is critical,'' he said
at his Senate confirmation hearing last month.

He also said that he has sought to strengthen the culture of ethics at
the Interior Department, which became notorious for corruption scandals
during the George W. Bush administration, when the deputy secretary of
the interior, J. Steven Griles, was sentenced to prison for lying to a
Senate committee about his ties to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. At that
time, Mr. Bernhardt was the Interior Department's solicitor.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I know how important and how devastating it is when folks at the top
act in an unethical manner,'' he said.

The questions about Mr. Bernhardt's conduct do not appear to have swayed
Republican support for Mr. Trump's nominee. Republican leaders have
praised Mr. Bernhardt's experience in the Bush administration.

``Mr. Bernhardt has significant private practice experience as well as a
past record of service at the Department,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell
of Kentucky, the Republican leader, in a statement. ``Along the way,
he's earned the respect of those who rely on the public lands the
Department of the Interior is charged to oversee, from Native American
leaders to sportsmen's groups. He's been praised as a `proven leader'
who `acts with integrity' and has `the right approach and skill set.'''

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said: ``It
still amazes me. Donald Trump campaigns on cleaning up the swamp and he
does exactly the opposite when in office. An oil and gas lobbyist as
head of the Department of Interior? My God. That's an example of the
swampiness of Washington if there ever was one. And when are Donald
Trump's supporters going to understand this?''

Environmental groups who opposed Mr. Bernhardt's confirmation were not
surprised that Senator Manchinn --- whose state, West Virigina, is rich
in coal and who often votes with Republicans on energy and environmental
policy matters --- supported Mr. Bernhardt. But many environmentalists
expressed anger that Senator Heinrich, who has presented himself as an
environmental champion, particularly on issues of climate change, backed
the confirmation of a former oil lobbyist to oversee public lands.

This week, the Western Values Project, a conservation advocacy
organization, ran a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=11KyUngoe_I\&feature=youtu.be}{television
ad campaign} in New Mexico urging Senator Heinrich to vote against Mr.
Bernhardt.

Senator Heinrich said that, as a lawmaker from a state where roughly
one-third of the land is owned and operated by the Interior Department,
it was important to him to have a permanent, confirmed secretary at the
head of the agency, even if the person in that role was not his first
choice.

``I need to be able to pick up the phone and talk to the secretary of
interior on a regular basis. I'm not going to be able to get the
interior secretary I wanted. We didn't win in 2016,'' he said, referring
to the presidential race. ``But in New Mexico, I'm going to put my state
and protection of public lands in my state first.''

The National Ocean Industries Association, a lobbying organization for
offshore drilling companies, including many of Mr. Bernhardt's former
clients, cheered his confirmation. ``His unparalleled depth of
experience at the department and knowledge of energy and conservation
policies will serve our nation's public lands and resources well,'' said
the group's president, Randall Luthi.

Offhore oil companies have been working closely with Mr. Bernhardt over
the past several months as he develops the administration's plan to open
up most United States coastal waters to offshore drilling. A
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html}{draft
of that plan} was made public last year, and Mr. Bernhardt is expected
to put forth a final plan later this year.

Government watchdog groups criticized the ties between Mr. Bernhardt and
his former clients. ``We know with absolute certainty that Bernhardt
will be a horrible secretary, because he had been a catastrophic deputy
secretary --- eager to do the bidding of his former clients, without
regard to the impact on the public lands, endangered species or public
health,'' said Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, which has
filed a complaint against Mr. Bernhardt with the Interior Department's
ethics office.

In addition, ethics specialists and Democratic lawmakers have requested
that the Interior Department's inspector general explore the findings of
a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/12/climate/david-bernhardt-endangered-species.html?module=inline}{New
York Times investigation} in February that revealed that Mr. Bernhardt,
while in office, had personally directed a policy to weaken endangered
species protections on a California fish, a change that could directly
benefit one of his former lobbying clients, the Westlands Water
District.

They have also sought an investigation based on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/04/climate/david-bernhardt-interior-lobbying.html}{a
separate Times report} detailing previously undisclosed emails
indicating that, in the months before he was nominated to office, Mr.
Bernhardt continued to lobby for the Westlands Water District even after
he filed official papers saying that he had ended his lobbying
activities. Federal law requires lobbyists to disclose their activities.

Lawmakers have also sought a formal inquiry into the findings of a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/us/politics/endangered-species-david-bernhardt.html?module=inline}{report
in the Times} in March showing that Mr. Bernhardt had intervened to
block the release of a scientific report revealing the threat presented
by three widely used pesticides to hundreds of endangered species,
including the
\href{https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2013-08/documents/san-joaquin-kitfox.pdf}{kit
fox} and the
\href{https://www.nps.gov/ever/learn/nature/csss.htm}{seaside sparrow}.

The inspector general's office has not confirmed that any investigations
of Mr. Bernhardt are underway.

For more news on climate and the environment,
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{follow @NYTClimate on Twitter}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
