Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Kansas Senate Primary
Has Arrived, and the Anxiety Over Kobach Is High

\href{https://nyti.ms/2PnB6dY}{https://nyti.ms/2PnB6dY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-kansas-senate-primary-has-arrived-and-the-anxiety-over-kobach-is-high}{%
\section{The Kansas Senate Primary Has Arrived, and the Anxiety Over
Kobach Is
High}\label{the-kansas-senate-primary-has-arrived-and-the-anxiety-over-kobach-is-high}}

Republicans worry that if Kris Kobach, a polarizing figure in the state,
wins the nomination, it would pave the way for Democrats to capture the
seat and perhaps gain control of the Senate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/us/politics/3kansas-senate/merlin_175161510_f4c4d151-1bde-4939-8c87-e3f4369c7410-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 3, 2020Updated Aug. 4, 2020, 9:16 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Republican anxieties about control of the Senate are reaching new
heights this week as the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html}{Kansas
Senate primary} hurtles to a close, amid
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/kansas-senate-kobach-trump.html}{fears
in Washington} that the firebrand candidate and staunch Trump supporter
Kris Kobach could win the nomination but lose a longtime red seat in
November.

As the national political environment has worsened for the G.O.P.,
putting a number of traditionally safe conservative seats into play,
many Republicans have grown especially focused on Kansas --- and
concerned that if Mr. Kobach, a polarizing figure in the state, wins on
Tuesday, Democrats could take the seat and perhaps gain control of the
Senate.

``A Kobach candidacy could put Schumer one step closer to becoming the
leader,'' said Scott W. Reed, the senior political strategist at the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, referring to the Senate minority leader, Chuck
Schumer. Mr. Reed's group is supporting Representative Roger Marshall in
the primary contest.

The primary is one of several high-profile contests that will unfold
across the country on Tuesday, including the race for the seat of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/rashida-tlaib-brenda-jones-primary.html}{Representative
Rashida Tlaib}, the prominent progressive Michigan congresswoman, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/arizona-election-joe-arpaio.html}{a
sheriff's race} in Maricopa County, Ariz., where the immigration
hard-liner Joe Arpaio is running for his former position.

Mr. Kobach, the former Kansas secretary of state who has run for office
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/13/magazine/the-man-behind-trumps-voter-fraud-obsession.html}{multiple
times}, has long been a controversial figure because of his severe views
on issues including immigration and voting rights. He has cultivated a
devoted conservative following but also discomfited many more moderate
Republicans in the process.

His
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/06/us/laura-kelly-wins-kansas-governors-race.html}{2018
run for governor} --- he eked out a primary win with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/06/us/politics/kris-kobach-trump-kansas.html}{President
Trump's endorsement}, only to lose to Democrat Laura Kelly in the
general election --- further convinced some party leaders that he would
uniquely endanger the Senate seat this year, a fear backed by Senate
Republican polling. It's a conviction
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/kansas-senate-kobach-trump.html}{he
dismisses} as ``establishment'' angst.

Mr. Kobach is running in a crowded Republican field against candidates
including Mr. Marshall and
\href{https://www.kansascity.com/news/politics-government/article244374532.html}{Bob
Hamilton}, a businessman who started a successful plumbing company and
has lent his campaign several million dollars (tagline: ``Send in a
plumber to drain the swamp.''). All three have spent time campaigning in
person across the state in recent days. Mr. Marshall embarked on what he
called a ``campaign countdown tour,'' and Mr. Kobach has been hosting
events centered around discussing the Constitution.

Strategists studying the race described a close and fluid contest, and
they headed into Primary Day with uncertainty about the outcome. Some
were also
\href{https://www.kansascity.com/news/politics-government/election/article244625722.html}{bracing
for a slow tabulation of the results} to account for large numbers of
mail-in ballots.

It has been 88 years since Kansas
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/30/us/politics/kansas-senate-kobach.html}{sent
a Democrat} to the U.S. Senate, and the state remains fundamentally
conservative terrain. But top Republicans acknowledge that at a
challenging moment for their party --- as Mr. Trump faces strong
disapproval for his handling of the coronavirus crisis --- Kansas is not
a sure bet in a general election Senate race, especially if a well-known
and polarizing candidate is on the ticket.

Still, Mr. Trump remains overwhelmingly popular with the Republican base
--- he won the state by more than 20 percentage points in 2016 --- and
party leaders have implored him to endorse Mr. Marshall, whom they
consider the strongest potential candidate in a general election. But he
has so far stayed on the sidelines, stoking
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/politics/kansas-senate-kobach-trump.html}{tensions
between Capitol Hill and the White House.}

The primary battle has been extraordinarily negative, defined by a
seemingly constant stream of attack ads leveled on television and in
mailers sent to voters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/us/politics/03kansas-senate2/merlin_175109784_09abb60b-d058-4d6a-b21f-09809903bc82-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Marshall, who represents the ``Big First'' District in western
Kansas --- a sprawling seat that often propels statewide Republican
victors --- has made clear through his own advertising that the size of
the field is of great concern. He has singled out in particular Mr.
Hamilton and Dave Lindstrom, a businessman and former Kansas City Chiefs
player, trying to convince Kansans that supporting those candidates
would divide the vote and aid Mr. Kobach.

``Bob Hamilton + Dave Lindstrom = Kris Kobach,'' read one mailer from
Mr. Marshall's campaign, the letters sketched on an image of a
chalkboard. ``Math can be complicated --- elections shouldn't be. A vote
for Hamilton or Lindstrom is a vote for Kris Kobach.''

The winner of the primary is expected to face State Senator Barbara
Bollier, a retired anesthesiologist who
\href{https://www.kansas.com/news/politics-government/article222990385.html}{until
recently was a Republican}, and did not have a significant primary
battle of her own.

``Most of the ads that have been run on the Republican side are negative
and getting more negative by the moment, so there's a lot of collateral
damage that will be left on the playing field,'' said former Gov.
Kathleen Sebelius, a Democrat. ``It's always nice in a situation like
this to have the opportunity --- which Barbara, I think, is taking great
advantage of --- to introduce herself in a very positive way. To use
this time, without a primary opponent, to make sure she's known, gets to
define herself, before Republicans come after her.''

Certainly, Ms. Sebelius acknowledged, running statewide in Kansas is a
challenge for any Democrat.

For many religious conservatives, voting for a Democrat is a nonstarter
because of their opposition to abortion rights and desire to see
conservative Supreme Court justices appointed. And plenty of more
centrist, business-oriented voters who recoil from Mr. Trump's
incendiary style are nevertheless reluctant to see a Democratic majority
in the Senate.

But the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/30/us/politics/kansas-senate-kobach.html}{moderate
suburbs in the Kansas City area}, where Ms. Bollier lives, have moved
away from the Republican Party in the Trump era. And some Republicans
are concerned that she has benefited from the internecine warfare on
their side of the aisle, making her more resilient against the ultimate
nominee.

``We had a crowded primary,'' acknowledged Chairman Mike Kuckelman of
the Kansas Republican Party, who is still optimistic about keeping the
seat in November. ``It cost a lot of money that could have been used in
the general. It's taken up a lot of time. But that's the way it goes. I
wish it'd been otherwise. I think we're ready to get it all behind us.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
