Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Rescue of Troubled Trucking
Company With White House Ties Draws Scrutiny

\url{https://nyti.ms/30pkV6b}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rescue-of-troubled-trucking-company-with-white-house-ties-draws-scrutiny}{%
\section{Rescue of Troubled Trucking Company With White House Ties Draws
Scrutiny}\label{rescue-of-troubled-trucking-company-with-white-house-ties-draws-scrutiny}}

Members of a congressional oversight panel want to know how YRC
Worldwide won a \$700 million loan from the Treasury Department.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/business/00dc-virus-truckingloan-01/00dc-virus-truckingloan-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-alan-rappeport/author-alan-rappeport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan
Rappeport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- At
\href{https://www.c-span.org/video/?472163-1/fed-reserve-chair-treasury-secretary-testimony-coronavirus-relief-bill}{a
virtual congressional hearing in May}, Senator Jerry Moran, Republican
of Kansas, asked Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin for help. A
struggling trucking company in his state was on the brink of collapse
and needed government support.

Eager to assist, Mr. Mnuchin assured the senator that ``we will look at
that specific company and see what we can do and get back to you.''

That company, YRC Worldwide, had lost more than \$100 million in 2019
and was being sued by the Justice Department over claims it defrauded
the federal government for a seven-year period. But six weeks after the
hearing, YRC received a bailout from the Treasury Department ---
\href{https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/YRC-Transaction-Summary.pdf}{a
\$700 million loan in exchange for a 30 percent stake in the business}.
The company's stock price soared 74 percent, though it has come down
since.

The rescue, which was approved on the grounds that YRC was critical to
national security, made the company one of the largest recipients of
taxpayer money meant to support businesses and workers struggling amid
the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/business/00DC-Virus-TruckingLoan-moran/merlin_172252059_5668779f-027e-408d-98f5-364a6964d199-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It has also raised questions about whether YRC benefited from a web of
connections between the company and the White House that allowed it to
bypass the Trump administration's own rules for which companies should
be eligible for federal help.

YRC has financial backing from Apollo Global Management, a private
equity firm with close ties to Trump administration officials. In 2019,
a group of funds managed by affiliates of Apollo
\href{http://investors.yrcw.com/news-releases/news-release-details/yrc-worldwide-announces-new-term-loan-agreement}{lent
YRC \$600 million}. In April, President Trump tapped YRC's chief
executive, Darren Hawkins, to serve on a coronavirus economic task force
and in January, he nominated the company's former chief executive,
William Zollars, to the United States Postal Service's board of
governors.

The loan has come under scrutiny from the Congressional Oversight
Commission, a bipartisan panel created by Congress to police stimulus
funds. Last month, the commission opened an inquiry into whether the
company, which ships meal kits, protective equipment and other supplies
to military bases, was really worthy of a rescue.

YRC's loan came from a discrete \$17 billion pot of money set up by
Congress and controlled by Mr. Mnuchin to help companies that were
designated as critical to national security. It was the first company to
receive a loan from that fund.

The company has said the loan will be used to pay pension and health
care costs and to invest in trailers and trucks.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T07:05:52.634Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

For months, the money went untouched, in part because the loans come
with strict terms and requirements and corporations must be willing to
hand over equity stakes in their companies to the federal government. To
be eligible, most companies are supposed to have government contracts
that involve emergency preparedness functions or top-secret facilities.
The Treasury Department submits all applications that do not meet those
criteria to the Defense Department for review.

That is what the Treasury Department did with YRC's application, saying
in a news release that the approval for the loan ``was based on a
certification by the secretary of defense that YRC is critical to
maintaining national security.''

A
\href{https://www.toomey.senate.gov/files/documents/Oversight\%20Commission\%20-\%203rd\%20Report\%20(FINAL)_7.20.20.pdf}{July
report} from the Congressional Oversight Commission raised questions
about the decision to grant the loan, asking why delivering food to
bases was vital for national security and why the Treasury Department
appeared to seek special signoff from the Defense Department to ensure
that YRC was considered eligible. The panel, which was created as part
of the legislation that was signed in March to oversee distribution of
\$2.2 trillion in federal virus relief, said it found the agreement
questionable and predicted that the government could end up losing money
on the deal given the company's precarious financial position.

Some members of the commission also want to look into whether YRC's
relationship with Apollo influenced the approval of the loan, according
to a person familiar with the matter. No decision has been made about
moving the inquiry in that direction. The commission, which will hold
its first hearing on Friday morning, has the power to request documents,
call witnesses and coordinate with other congressional committees on
oversight matters.

The loan has raised questions of favoritism in part because it appears
to flout the Trump administration's own public assertions that it would
not use taxpayer money to prop up individual companies or bail out
businesses that were in financial trouble before the pandemic struck.
The YRC loan appears to be an exception.

``YRC was already in a precarious position given that they weren't a
very profitable company, they were already losing volume and market
share, and they've been trying to turn this around forever,'' said David
Ross, an analyst at the investment firm Stifel. ``In normal times when
you have a recession, companies that aren't the best companies go
away.''

Image

Apollo Global Management, which Josh Harris helped found, said it was
not involved in YRC's decision to seek the loan.Credit...Patrick T.
Fallon/Bloomberg

The relationship between Apollo and the White House runs deep. In 2017,
Josh Harris, a founder of Apollo,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/28/business/jared-kushner-apollo-citigroup-loans.html}{advised
the Trump administration on infrastructure policy} and discussed a
possible White House job with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law and
senior adviser. That same year, Apollo lent \$184 million to Mr.
Kushner's family real estate firm, Kushner Companies, to refinance the
mortgage on a Chicago skyscraper.

Since the pandemic, Apollo has been lobbying the Trump administration to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/04/business/economy/apollo-federal-reserve-lending-talf.html}{allow
broader access to an emergency Federal Reserve lending program}.

The government lifeline to YRC was a boon to Apollo, which might have
been faced with liquidating its decaying trucking assets if the company
was forced to close.

Apollo, which is YRC's biggest creditor, said it was not involved in
YRC's decision to seek the Treasury Department loan and noted that it is
one of several lenders invested in the company. However, a spokeswoman
acknowledged that it was advised of the government loan and made changes
to its own loan terms with YRC to accommodate it.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mike Kelley, a YRC spokesman, declined to comment.

The Treasury Department declined to explain why it determined that YRC
was worthy of a loan. In announcing the decision on July 1, Mr. Mnuchin
said, ``This loan will enable a critical vendor to the Department of
Defense to maintain significant employment while providing appropriate
compensation to taxpayers'' and estimated that 30,000 trucking jobs
would be saved. A Defense Department spokesman referred questions to the
Treasury Department when asked why YRC was critical to the country's
security.

Image

Mr. Mnuchin controlled the~\$17 billion pot of money from which
YRC's~loan was drawn.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

YRC's relationship with the government has not always been cozy. In
2018, the
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/united-states-sues-freight-companies-systematic-overcharging-shipments}{Justice
Department sued YRC}, accusing it of overcharging and defrauding the
Defense Department out of millions of dollars over a seven-year period.
Prosecutors said YRC inflated the weights of thousands of shipments,
billing the government based on those false numbers in what was
described as ``an affront to American taxpayers.''

YRC attributes the complaint to an old contractual dispute and says it
has a motion for dismissal pending.

YRC's fortunes have been fading for years, beginning in 2009 when two of
its shipping competitors, FedEx and Conway, engaged in a price war in
hopes of driving it out of the market. Last year it posted a net loss of
\$104 million. As of the end of March it
\href{https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2020/05/11/2031400/0/en/YRC-Worldwide-Reports-First-Quarter-2020-Results.html\#:~:text=OVERLAND\%20PARK\%2C\%20Kan.\%2C\%20May,net\%20gain\%20on\%20property\%20sales.}{had
\$880 million} in outstanding debt.

Analysts attributed its financial malaise to a long period of
mismanagement and neglect of its fleet of trucks.

Amit Mehrotra, a Deutsche Bank analyst, said that YRC's fleet was twice
as old as the industry average and that many of its competitors had been
thriving despite the economic upheaval, suggesting that the pandemic
merely accelerated the company's demise. Although it would be
inconvenient for the Defense Department to terminate its contract if YRC
went out of business, he said, there are plenty of capable alternatives
in the shipping market.

``Their crisis is not a product of Covid,'' Mr. Mehrotra said. ``Their
crisis is borne of years and of under investment in their assets.''

As the pandemic shuttered large swaths of the U.S. economy this spring,
freight volumes at YRC fell sharply. The company began shedding workers,
delayed payments to health funds for its union workers and, in late
April, applied to the federal government for financial assistance.
Moody's Investors Service cut the company's ratings and Mr. Ross, of
Stifel, halted estimates of its earnings, noting the high degree of
uncertainty facing the company.

``Will YRC live to fight another day?'' Mr. Ross wrote in a note to
clients in May.

To government watchdog groups that have been tracking the Trump
administration's economic relief effort, the real question is whether a
company such as YRC should live on. That is especially pertinent when
difficult choices are being made about extending unemployment insurance
and funding schools with personal protective equipment.

``It sends a chilling message to the American people that the Trump
administration has no problem throwing nearly a billion dollars to
wealthy, well-connected companies like YRC, while they refuse to provide
adequate assistance for the unemployed or protect workers as the
pandemic worsens,'' said Kyle Herrig, the president of Accountable.US.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
