Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Globetrotting}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{globetrotting}{%
\section{Globetrotting}\label{globetrotting}}

By The New York Times, Gray Beltran,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rebecca-lieberman}{Rebecca Lieberman}
and Tammy TarngUpdated April 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{12}
\end{itemize}

Your sneak preview of books coming out in 2020 from around the world.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/cover.gif}

Thoka Maer

Show All

New Releases

Africa

Asia

Europe

Latin America

Middle East

Oceania

Hungary

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Szabo.jpg}

Abigail

A troubled teenager during World War II turns for help to the legend
behind her school's statue of a woman holding an urn.

 By Magda Szabó. Translated from the Hungarian by Len Rix. Available
January 7 from New York Review Books.

Canada

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Dupont.jpg}

The American Fiancée

Three generations of the Lamontagne family reckon with secrets and drama
spanning Quebec, New York and Europe.

 By Éric Dupont. Translated from the French by Peter McCambridge.
Available February 11 from HarperCollins.

Brazil

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Polesso.jpg}

Amora

New

Thirty-three stories and poems together explore the violence, freedom
and complexities of female love.

 By Natalia Borges Polesso. Translated from the Portuguese by Julia
Sanches. Available May 19 from Amazon Crossing.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Asbrink.jpg}

And in the Vienna Woods the Trees Remain

A compilation of personal files and commentary centering on a young
Jewish refugee's friendship with the future founder of Ikea.

 By Elisabeth Åsbrink. Translated from the Swedish by Saskia Vogel.
Available January 21 from Other Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Mathieu2.jpg}

And Their Children After Them

With his cousin, a young boy steals a canoe to get to a famous nudist
beach, leading him to his first love and a life-changing summer.

 By Nicolas Mathieu. Translated from the French by William Rodarmor.
Available April 7 from Other Press. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/books/review/nicolas-mathieu-their-children-after-them.html}{review}.

Denmark

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Andersen.jpg}

Anger Is My Middle Name

A memoir of the author and her three brothers growing up in foster care
and state-run institutions in Denmark.

 By Lisbeth Zornig Andersen. Translated from the Danish by Mark Mussari.
Available March 1 from Amazon Crossing.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Speck.jpg}

Anywhere but Home

New

In this debut novel, a young fashion designer in Milan discovers the
father she thought was dead is alive, and begins to map out her family's
past.

 By Daniel Speck. Translated from the German by Jaime McGill. Available
August 11 from Amazon Crossing.

China

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Tzu.jpg}

The Art of War

A female scholar and translator reimagines Sun Tzu's ancient book of
strategy and psychology.

 By Sun Tzu. Translated from the Chinese by Michael Nylan. Available
January 7 from W.W. Norton. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/23/books/review-art-of-war-sun-tzu-new-translation-michael-nylan.html}{review}.

Serbia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Petrovic.jpg}

At the Lucky Hand: a.k.a. The Sixty-Nine Drawers

New

Various love stories centered around a book, in a collection that
celebrates the power of literature.

 By Goran Petrović. Translated from the Serbian by Peter Agnone.
Available July 14 from Deep Vellum.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Cuomo.jpg}

Beautiful

In Mexico, a man lives in the shadow of his strikingly beautiful younger
brother.

 By Massimo Cuomo. Translated from the Italian by Will Schutt. Available
March 3 from Europa.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Salzmann.jpg}

Beside Myself

A twin leaves her life in Berlin for Istanbul in search of her brother,
encountering political and social chaos.

 By Sasha Marianna Salzmann. Translated from the German by Imogen
Taylor. Available February 18 from Other Press.

Colombia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Quintana.jpg}

The Bitch

New

Living by the Pacific coast with her husband, a childless woman adopts a
puppy who helps her investigate her own potential motherhood,
unfulfilled desire and pain.

 By Pilar Quintana. Translated from the Spanish by Lisa Dillman.
Available August 4 from World Editions.

Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Seong.jpg}

Bluebeard's First Wife

New

Stories of secrets and paranoia laid bare, from a stolen dog to a woman
learning of her fiancé's dishonesty.

 By Ha Seong-nan. Translated from the Korean by Janet Hong. Available
June 16 from Open Letter.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Carlotto.jpg}

Blues for Outlaw Hearts and Old Whores

Marco Buratti, known as the Alligator, and his partners are blackmailed
by a high government official and framed in the latest of the Alligator
series.

 By Massimo Carlotto. Translated from the Italian by Will Schutt.
Available February 4 from Europa.

Mexico

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Boullosa.jpg}

The Book of Anna

New

The son of Anna Karenina meets Tolstoy in his dreams, while a seamstress
across town plans a protest with a leader of the proletariat.

 By Carmen Boullosa. Translated from the Spanish by Samantha Schnee.
Available April 14 from Coffee House Press.

Japan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kawakami.jpg}

Breasts and Eggs

This expanded version of an earlier novella follows the unnamed
narrator, her older sister and her niece.

 By Mieko Kawakami. Translated from the Japanese by Sam Bett and David
Boyd. Available April 7 from Europa. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/books/review/breasts-and-eggs-mieko-kawakami.html}{review}.

Spain

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Arbol.jpg}

Breathing Through the Wound

New

A once-celebrated painter and widower is pulled into Madrid's criminal
underground when he is asked to paint the portrait of a killer.

 By Víctor del Árbol. Translated from the Spanish by Lisa Dillman.
Available July 7 from Other Press.

Chile

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Rios.jpg}

Cars on Fire

Stories set across New Jersey, New York and Chile grieve lives lost to
violence and emphasize the strengths of art and feminine desire in the
face of oppression.

 By Mónica Ramón Ríos. Translated from the Spanish by Robin Myers.
Available April 14 from Open Letter.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Karlsson.jpg}

The Circus

The narrator, who lives a quiet life, goes to the circus with a
childhood friend who disappears in the middle of a disappearing act.

 By Jonas Karlsson. Translated from the Swedish by Neil Smith. Available
January 28 from Hogarth.

Belgium

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Hertmans2.jpg}

The Convert

A young woman raised in a Christian household in 11th-century France
leaves her family for the love of a Jewish boy.

 By Stefan Hertmans. Translated from the Dutch by David McKay. Available
February 4 from Pantheon.

Austria

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Lernet-Holenia.jpg}

Count Luna

New

A translation of the 1955 novel about an Austrian aristocrat who becomes
convinced that his neighbor, who survived a Nazi concentration camp,
seeks revenge --- on him.

 By Alexander Lernet-Holenia. Translated from the German by Jane B.
Greene. Available August 25 from New Directions.

Croatia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Novak.jpg}

Dark Mother Earth

A successful novelist must confront his past instead of hiding behind
fiction when his third novel fails and his girlfriend leaves him.

 By Kristian Novak. Translated from the Croatian by Ellen Elias-Bursac.
Available January 14 from Amazon Crossing.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ventrella.jpg}

A Decent Family

New

A strong-willed girl in a poor neighborhood of Bari is forced to weigh
her family loyalty against her friendship with the son of a rival clan.

 By Rosa Ventrella. Translated from the Italian by Ann Goldstein.
Available June 1 from Amazon Crossing.

Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Mangap.jpg}

The Diary of 1636

New

The 17th-century scholar's chronology of military campaigns along the
northern and western regions of Korea and the evolution of ethnic
interpretations of identity.

 By Na Man'gap. Translated from the Korean by George Kallander.
Available July 21 from Columbia University Press.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Malaparte.jpg}

Diary of a Foreigner in Paris

New

The journal of a man dispatched as a journalist to the Eastern Front in
World War II, and then condemned by Mussolini to five years in exile.

 By Curzio Malaparte. Translated from the Italian by Stephen Twilley.
Available May 19 from New York Review Books.

Spain

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Cirlot.jpg}

A Dictionary of Symbols

New

An updated edition of writings by the poet and art critic Cirlot covers
subjects as diverse as the nature of the Mandala and the symbolic
dimensions of the hippopotamus.

 By J.E. Cirlot. Translated from the Spanish by Jack Sage and Valerie
Miles. Available July 21 from New York Review Books.

Colombia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Gonzalez.jpg}

Difficult Light

New

A near-blind painter channels the beauty of the world --- and his own
grief over the death of his son --- through writing.

 By Tomás González. Translated from the Spanish by Andrea Rosenberg.
Available June 30 from Archipelago Books.

Morocco

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/al-Yusi.jpg}

The Discourses

A range of essays on Moroccan history and Sufism by one of the most
prominent Moroccan intellectual figures of his generation.

 By Abu'Ali al-Hasan al-Yusi. Translated from the Arabic by Justin
Stearns. Available January 7 from NYU Press.

Lebanon

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Maalouf.jpg}

The Disoriented

New

A Frenchman returns home from Paris upon learning that his friend is
dying, and once there discovers the various paths his childhood friends
have taken.

 By Amin Maalouf. Translated from the French by Frank Wynne. Available
May 12 from World Editions.

Peru

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Cisneros2.jpg}

The Distance Between Us

New

The renowned journalist reckons with his father's history as a
controversial key figure in the oppressive military regime that held
power in Peru in the 1970s.

 By Renato Cisneros. Translated from the Spanish by Fionn Petch.
Available August 6 from Charco Press.

Colombia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Restrepo.jpg}

The Divine Boys

New

A novel based on a true crime about five privileged men and the
disappearance of a girl from the slums of Bogotá.

 By Laura Restrepo. Translated from the Spanish by Carolina De Robertis.
Available July 21 from Amazon Crossing.

Argentina

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Pron.jpg}

Don't Shed Your Tears for Anyone Who Lives on These Streets

New

Thirty years after a writer is found dead at the bottom of a cliff, a
young man investigates the incident and its connection to a present-day
police confrontation.

 By Patricio Pron. Translated from the Spanish by Mara Feye Lethem.
Available May 21 from Knopf.

Czech Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Zgustova.jpg}

Dressed for a Dance in the Snow

A collection of interviews with former female prisoners of Stalin's
labor camps, relaying the hardships of the camps and the perseverance of
the prisoners.

 By Monika Zgustova. Translated from the Spanish by Julie Jones.
Available February 4 from Other Press.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Assulin.jpg}

The Drive

A young Israeli soldier and his father meet with a military
psychiatrist, grappling with the young man's breaking point and the
concept of duty.

 By Yair Assulin. Translated from the Hebrew by Jessica Cohen. Available
April 7 from New Vessel Press.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Diakite.jpg}

A Drop of Midnight

A successful hip-hop artist threads letters, conversations with his
parents and journeys to South Carolina and New York to explore his
experiences with discrimination, family and ambition.

 By Jason Diakite. Translated from the Swedish by Rachel
Willson-Broyles. Available February 1 from Amazon Crossing.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Emma.jpg}

The Emotional Load

New

``Visual essays'' exploring women's experiences, from consent to green
capitalism, dieting to chivalry.

 By Emma. Translated from the French by Una Dimitrijevic. Available July
21 from Seven Stories Press.

Australia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Azar.jpg}

The Enlightenment of the Greengage Tree

Written by a political refugee who moved to Australia, a novel in which
the ghost of a 13-year-old girl narrates her family's flight from their
home in Tehran to a small village in hopes of preserving their
intellectual freedom.

 By Shokoofeh Azar. Translated from the Farsi. Available January 7 from
Europa.

Cuba

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Alvarez.jpg}

The Fallen

New

A debut novel charts the dismantling of a Cuban family through the
varying points of view of mother, father, son and daughter.

 By Carlos Manuel Álvarez. Translated from the Spanish by Frank Wynne.
Available June 2 from Graywolf Press.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Terranova.jpg}

Farewell, Ghosts

New

A woman sorts through items from her upbringing, forcing her to confront
traumas of a father who left and a strained relationship with her
mother.

 By Nadia Terranova. Translated from the Italian by Ann Goldstein.
Available August 25 from Seven Stories Press.

Russia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Chekhov.jpg}

Fifty-Two Stories

A collection of Chekhov's stories --- some never before translated ---
with a wide cast of characters from all parts of Russia and walks of
life.

 By Anton Chekhov. Translated from the Russian by Richard Pevear and
Larissa Volokhonsky. Available April 14 from Knopf.

Spain

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Mesa.jpg}

Four by Four

New

In a college for children of the wealthy, one of the scholarship
students disappears under suspicious circumstances.

 By Sara Mesa. Translated from the Spanish by Katie Whittemore.
Available May 5 from Open Letter.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Perrin.jpg}

Fresh Water for Flowers

New

The caretaker at a cemetery clashes with the local police chief, who
insists on scattering his late mother's ashes on a stranger's grave.

 By Valérie Perrin. Translated from the French by Hildegarde Serle.
Available July 7 from Europa.

North Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Nam-nyong.jpg}

Friend

New

A woman goes to a courthouse to petition for a divorce, only to find her
marital troubles are mirrored by those of the judge.

 By Paek Nam-nyong. Translated from the Korean by Immanuel Kim.
Available May 5 from Columbia University Press.

Syria

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Wannous.jpg}

The Frightened Ones

New

A writer flees Syria for Germany, entrusting his girlfriend with a
manuscript whose protagonist who is eerily similar to her.

 By Dima Wannous. Translated from the Arabic by Elisabeth Jaquette.
Available August 11 from Knopf.

Spain

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Rodoreda.jpg}

Garden by the Sea

The glamorous and rich lives of a young couple and their friends in a
villa by the sea unfolds through the eyes of the villa's widowed
gardener.

 By Mercé Rodoreda. Translated from the Catalan by Maruxa Relaño and
Martha Tennent. Available February 28 from Open Letter.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Pieri.jpg}

The Garden of Monsters

New

When an enterprising rancher makes a deal with an extravagant
politician, the stories of their families become inextricably connected.

 By Lorenza Pieri. Translated from the Italian by Liesl Schillinger.
Available June 9 from Europa.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Sulprizio.jpg}

Gender and Sexuality in Juvenal's Rome: Satire 2 and 6

Two volumes by the ancient Roman poet Juvenal that address marriage,
homosexuality and deeply rooted problems in Rome.

 \textbf{Edited and translated from the Italian by Christina Sulprizio.}
Available February 27 from University of Oklahoma Press.

Ireland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/McCartney.jpg}

The Ghost Factory

New

After his father dies and his best friend is attacked, Jacky heads to
London in an attempt to build a new life.

 By Jenny McCartney. Available June 30 from Fourth Estate.

Turkey

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Isiguzel.jpg}

The Girl in the Tree

A young woman in Istanbul falls in love and shares stories with a boy
about their changing city and their families' place within it.

 By Sebnem İsiguzel. Translated from the Turkish by Mark David Wyers.
Available March 17 from Amazon Crossing.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ernaux.jpg}

A Girl's Story

New

The author's memoir of the man who 50 years ago subjugated her will to
his, only to move on from the relationship and leave her bereft of her
``master.''

 By Annie Ernaux. Translated from the French by Alison L. Strayer.
Available April 7 from Seven Stories Press.

Libya

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/al-Knoi.jpg}

Gold Dust

With his camel, Ukhayyad witnesses war and famine across the Tuareg
deserts of the Libyan Sahara after being shunned by his tribe and hunted
by the family of the man he killed.

 By Ibrahim al-Koni. Translated from the Arabic by Elliot Colla.
Available March 3 from Hoopoe.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Lackberg.jpg}

The Golden Cage

New

A billionaire's wife discovers her husband is having an affair, cracking
open the seams of their picture-perfect marriage before exacting
revenge.

 By Camilla Läckberg. Translated from the Swedish by Neil Smith.
Available July 7 from Knopf.

South Africa

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Venter.jpg}

Hard Rain

A journalist on assignment in Tanzania gets caught up in an
investigation involving a beautiful photographer he meets and a tech
billionaire.

 By Irma Venter. Translated from the Afrikaans by Elsa Silke. Available
April 7 from Amazon Crossing.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Liogier.jpg}

Heart of Maleness

A sociologist explores the root causes of gender equality, delving into
topics such as catcalling, the glass ceiling and rape.

 By Raphaël Liogier. Translated from the French by Antony Shugaar.
Available January 28 from Other Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Petitjean.jpg}

The Heart: Frida Kahlo in Paris

An intimate portrait of the artist and her time in the lively 1930s
surrealist scene.

 By Marc Petitjean. Translated from the French by Adriana Hunter.
Available April 28 from Other Press.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Giordano.jpg}

Heaven and Earth

New

On the farm in Puglia where she travels each summer with her father,
Teresa meets three boys whose bond is tested by a violent act of
revenge.

 By Paolo Giordano. Translated from the Italian by Anne Milano Appel.
Available July 21 from Pamela Dorman Books.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Elon.jpg}

House on Endless Waters

A famous author revisits his birthplace to promote his books and comes
across a photo of his family with an infant he doesn't recognize,
spurring a hunt for answers about the history of his family.

 By Emuna Elon. Translated from the Hebrew by Anthony Berris and Linda
Yechiel. Available January 7 from Atria.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Murgia.jpg}

How to Be a Fascist

New

A manual for turning democracy into a fascist utopia, exploring the
attraction of right-wing populism.

 By Michela Murgia. Translated from the Italian by Alex Valente.
Available August 4 from Penguin.

Poland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Szablowski.jpg}

How to Feed a Dictator

The author tracks down the personal chefs of five dictators: Iraq's
Saddam Hussein, Uganda's Idi Amin, Albania's Enver Hoxha, Cuba's Fidel
Castro and Cambodia's Pol Pot, writing down their stories over meals.

 By Witold Szablowski. Translated from the Polish by Antonia
Lloyd-Jones. Available April 28 from Penguin Books.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Andrea.jpg}

A Hundred Million Years and a Day

New

Four men embark on a journey to find the skeleton of a dragon said to
reside deep within an Alpine glacier.

 By Jean-Baptiste Andrea. Translated from the French by Sam Taylor.
Available June 16 from Gallic.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Sandig.jpg}

I Am a Field Full of Rapeseed, Give Cover to Deer and Shine Like
Thirteen Oil Paintings Laid One on Top of the Other

A volume of poems using the darker side of fairy tales to examine
information overload, political apathy and migration.

 By Ulrike Almut Sandig. Translated from the German by Karen Leeder.
Available March 15 from Seagull Books.

Austria

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Goldenberg.jpg}

I Belong to Vienna

New

In this memoir, the author's great-grandparents are deported from their
native Austria to a Czech concentration camp in 1942, leaving their
teenage son alone in Vienna. Decades later, Goldenberg returns to the
city of her roots.

 By Anna Goldenberg. Translated from the German by Alta L. Price.
Available June 9 from New Vessel Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Godelier.jpg}

The Imagined, the Imaginary and the Symbolic

Godelier makes the argument that the real is not separate from the
symbolic and the imaginary.

 By Maurice Godelier. Translated from the French by Nora Scott.
Available January 28 from Verso.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Georges.jpg}

The Imago Stage

New

After winning a modeling competition and thus escaping a home rife with
depression and violence, the protagonist returns years later when her
mother is diagnosed with cancer.

 By Karoline Georges. Translated from the French by Rhonda Mullins.
Available June 9 from Coach House Books.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Mancuso.jpg}

The Incredible Journey of Plants

A neurobiologist charts the journeys of plant migration and draws
connections between nature and culture.

 By Stefano Mancuso. Translated from the Italian by Gregory Conti.
Available March 17 from Other Press.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Schalansky.jpg}

An Inventory of Losses

New

Twelve stories; 12 objects, lost forever to the world. This collection
resurrects cultural treasures lost forever to the world, from a poem to
a tiger to an island, in a meditation on memory and myth.

 By Judith Schalansky. Translated from the German by Jackie Smith.
Available August 25 from New Directions.

Switzerland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ramuz.jpg}

Jean-Luc Persecuted

New

An unhappy husband grows hysterical when his wife disappears, convinced
she has run off with another man.

 By C.F. Ramuz. Translated from the French by Olivia Baes. Available
August 11 from Deep Vellum.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Collette.jpg}

Just After the Wave

A family with nine children is stranded on an island when a volcano
collapses in the ocean and leaves only their home standing.

 By Sandrine Collette. Translated from the French by Alison Anderson.
Available January 14 from Europa.

Serbia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Tisma.jpg}

Kapo

New

After World War II, a prisoner who served as a concentration camp guard
tries to resume life in Bosnia, but is haunted by the past.

 By Aleksandar Tisma. Translated from the Serbo-Croatian by Richard
Williams. Available August 25 from New York Review Books.

Norway

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Stranger.jpg}

Keep Saying Their Names

New

The story of five generations of a single family haunted by World War II
unfolds in a house of horrors.

 By Simon Stranger. Translated from the Norwegian by Matt Bagguley.
Available May 19 from Knopf.

Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Nam-Joo.jpg}

Kim Jiyoung, Born 1982

To the concern of her husband, a millennial ``everywoman'' in Seoul
begins to impersonate various women.

 By Cho Nam-Joo. Translated from the Korean by Jamie Chang. Available
April 14 from Liveright. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/14/books/review/kim-jiyoung-born-1982-cho-nam-joo.html}{review}.

Poland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Twardoch.jpg}

The King of Warsaw

A boxer and enforcer for a crime lord who reveled in luxury tries to
maintain control during Hitler's rise.

 By Szczepan Twardoch. Translated from the Polish by Sean Bye. Available
April 21 from Amazon Crossing.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Craveri.jpg}

The Last Libertines

New

A portrait of seven young aristocrats, singled out for their roles in
the Enlightenment, condemning poverty and pushing for progressive ideas
of justice and civility.

 By Benedetta Craveri. Translated from the Italian by Aaron Kerner.
Available August 18 from New York Review Books.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Barth-Friederichs.jpg}

The Last Winter of the Weimar Republic

A day-to-day account of the final months of the Weimar Republic,
documenting the collapse of democracy and Hitler's ascent to power.

 By Rüdiger Barth and Hauke Friederichs. Translated from the German by
Caroline Waight. Available February 4 from Pegasus Books.

Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Pyun.jpg}

The Law of Lines

New

A thriller set in South Korea starring one woman who suspects debt
collectors want her father dead, and another who learns that her sister
has been found dead in the Namgang River.

 By Hye-young Pyun. Translated from the Korean by Sora Kim-Russell.
Available May 5 from Arcade Publishing.

Poland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Janko.jpg}

A Little Annihilation

New

In Poland in 1943, a 9-year-old witnesses the murder of her family at
the hands of German soldiers. The repercussions on her psyche last a
lifetime.

 By Anna Janko. Translated from the Polish by Philip Boehm. Available
June 2 from World Editions.

Argentina

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Schweblin.jpg}

Little Eyes

New

Robot dolls called kentuki connect people throughout the world in
strange ways, leading to the dissolution of privacy.

 By Samanta Schweblin. Translated from the Spanish by Megan McDowell.
Available May 5 from Riverhead.

Spain

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Cercas.jpg}

Lord of All the Dead

Cercas ponders the legend of his great-uncle, who died in the bloodiest
battle of the Spanish Civil War at the age of 19.

 By Javier Cercas. Translated from the Spanish by Anne McLean. Available
January 14 from Knopf.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Boucheron.jpg}

Machiavelli

A historian makes a case for Machiavelli as a misunderstood and
villainized figure with political insights that can be applied to modern
times.

 By Patrick Boucheron. Translated from the French by William Wood.
Available February 11 from Other Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Breton.jpg}

The Magnetic Fields

New

A law student and medical student team up to write for an allotted time
each week in secret, reckoning with the moral shock of World War I.

 By André Breton and Philippe Soupault. Translated from the French by
Charlotte Mandell. Available July 21 from New York Review Books.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Bosco.jpg}

Malicroix

A young man must live in a house by himself for three months on an
island in order to inherit it from his great-uncle, confronting nature
and his own solitude.

 By Henri Bosco. Translated from the French by Joyce Zonana. Available
April 7 from New York Review Books.

Japan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Hirano.jpg}

A Man

New

A divorce attorney is tasked with investigating the life of a former
client's deceased husband.

 By Keiichiro Hirano. Translated from the Japanese by Eli K.P. William.
Available June 1 from Amazon Crossing.

Japan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Tsuge.jpg}

The Man Without Talent

An artist quits cartooning and tries different vocations to no avail,
providing a depiction of Japan today.

 By Yoshiharu Tsuge. Translated from the Japanese by Ryan Holmberg.
Available February 11 from New York Review Books.

Algeria

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Girod.jpg}

Mansour's Eyes

New

A man makes his way to his public execution against the backdrop of a
family history, and a portrait of a post-Arab Spring world.

 By Ryad Girod. Translated from the French by Chris Clarke. Available
June 23 from Transit Books.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kempowski.jpg}

Marrow and Bone

A middle-aged journalist takes a road trip, sponsored by a car company,
to his birthplace.

 By Walter Kempowski. Translated from the German by Charlotte Collins.
Available March 24 from New York Review Books.

Palestine

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Shibli.jpg}

Minor Detail

New

A young woman in Ramallah obsesses over a rape and murder that occurred
exactly 25 years before the day she was born.

 By Adania Shibli. Translated from the Arabic by Elisabeth Jaquette.
Available May 26 from New Directions.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Blutch.jpg}

Mitchum

Comics from the renowned artist portray everything from Puritan fever
dreams to visions of America.

 By Blutch. Translated from the French by Matt Madden. Available April 7
from New York Review Books.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Enzensberger.jpg}

Money, Money, Money!

The great-aunt of three siblings arrives in town newly wealthy, and
invites them to her luxury hotel for a crash course in economics.

 By Hans Magnus Enzensberger. Translated from the German by Simon Pare.
Available March 15 from Seagull Books.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Montale.jpg}

Montale

A selection of poems by the 1975 Nobel laureate, examining modern
history, philosophy and faith.

 By Eugenio Montale. Edited and translated from the Italian by Jonathan
Galassi. Available April 7 from Everyman's Library.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kerninon.jpg}

My Devotion

New

A turbulent relationship between members of two different diplomatic
families in France results in a new life in Amsterdam, and an
exploration of appearances and submission.

 By Julia Kerninon. Translated from the French by Alison Anderson.
Available August 25 from Europa.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Shalev2.jpg}

My Wild Garden

A walkthrough of the writer's garden, from the lemon tree to the purple
snapdragon, including notes from recipes and personal stories.

 By Meir Shalev. Translated from the Hebrew by Joanna Chen. Available
March 31 from Schocken.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Bussi.jpg}

Never Forget

New

After happening upon a red scarf that leads him to find a torn dress and
then a dead stranger below a cliff, a man must defend himself against
those who think he pushed her.

 By Michel Bussi. Translated from the French by Sam Taylor. Available
August 18 from Europa.

Slovenia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kovacic.jpg}

Newcomers: Book 2

The dangers and humiliations of a boy living in occupied Slovenia in
World War II are recounted in this autobiographical novel.

 By Lojze Kovacic. Translated from the Slovenic by Michael Biggins.
Available January 28 from Archipelago Books.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Manchette.jpg}

No Room at the Morgue

New

A private eye attempts to help a beautiful woman figure out who murdered
her roommate.

 By Jean-Patrick Manchette. Translated from the French by Alyson Waters.
Available August 11 from New York Review Books.

Croatia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Perisic.jpg}

No-Signal Area

With the help of a former engineer, two entrepreneurs reopen a turbine
factory and revive a struggling post-communist town, but find themselves
thrown into the town's unresolved past.

 By Robert Perisic. Translated from the Croatian by Ellen Elias-Bursac.
Available May 5 from Seven Stories Press. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/28/books/review/robert-perisic-no-signal-area.html}{review}.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Giono.jpg}

Occupation Journal

Observations on art and literature throughout the 1930s and 1940s by the
famous pacifist, as well as encounters with the machinery of the Vichy
regime.

 By Jean Giono. Translated from the French by Jody Gladding. Available
March 31 from Archipelago Books.

Colombia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Cardenas.jpg}

Ornamental

New

When a doctor enlists volunteers for a trial of a recreational drug, the
carefully constructed lives of everyone involved start to unravel.

 By Juan Cárdenas. Translated from the Spanish by Lizzie Davis.
Available June 2 from Coffee House Press.

Vietnam

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ha-Babcock.jpg}

Other Moons

New

An anthology of 20 short stories, many written by Vietnamese veterans,
describing their experiences of trauma, memory and war.

 \textbf{Edited and translated by Quan Manh Ha and Joseph Babcock.}
Available August 4 from Columbia University Press.

Norway

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Fosse.jpg}

The Other Name

Two men on the west coast of Norway --- both painters --- lead parallel
lives.

 By Jon Fosse. Translated from the Norwegian by Damion Searls. Available
April 7 from Transit Books.

South Africa

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Patel3.jpg}

Outside the Lines

New

A single Johannesburg family contains: a kidnapped drug addict, a couple
reckoning with their different social backgrounds and a worker accused
of stealing.

 By Ameera Patel. Available June 9 from Catalyst Press.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Giovanni3.jpg}

Puppies

New

Chaos spreads throughout Naples as a baby is left in a dumpster, small
animals begin to disappear and a Ukrainian maid struggles to find
justice.

 By Maurizio de Giovanni. Translated from the Italian by Antony Shugaar.
Available July 21 from Europa.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kling.jpg}

Qualityland

In this tech-age satire, a machine scrapper returns a product in a
supposedly perfect world, throwing off its algorithm and casting doubt
on the foundations of Qualityland itself.

 By Marc-Uwe Kling. Translated from the German by Jamie Searle
Romanelli. Available January 7 from Grand Central Publishing.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kepler.jpg}

The Rabbit Hunter

Joona Linna and Saga Bauer follow the Rabbit Hunter, tracing the
killer's trail back to one horrific night of violence.

 By Lars Kepler. Translated from the Swedish by Neil Smith. Available
January 15 from Knopf.

Taiwan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Amang.jpg}

Raised by Wolves

New

The themes in this collection of verse by a feminist Taiwanese poet and
filmmaker range from romance to international relations.

 By Amang. Translated from the Taiwanese by Steve Bradbury. Available
July 21 from Deep Vellum.

Belgium

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Dieudonne.jpg}

Real Life

With her younger brother, a girl who fears her abusive father witnesses
a tragic accident and spends the following years trying to save her
brother and reckon with reality.

 By Adeline Dieudonné. Translated from the French by Roland Glasser.
Available February 4 from World Editions.

Mexico

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Jose.jpg}

Red Ants

New

Magical realist short stories depict Indigenous life in Mexico.

 By Pergentino José. Translated from the Spanish by Thomas Bunstead.
Available August 18 from Deep Vellum.

Netherlands

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Gerritsen.jpg}

Roxy

Roxy reckons with complicated feelings of grief when her husband dies in
a car crash, his naked body intertwined with his lover's.

 By Esther Gerritsen. Translated from the Dutch by Michele Hutchison.
Available March 3 from World Editions.

Japan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Shusaku.jpg}

Sachiko

New

In 1930s Japan, two young Christians try to find love in a time when
Japanese Christians are deemed traitors.

 By Endo Shusaku. Translated from the Japanese by Van C. Gessel.
Available August 4 from Columbia University Press.

Brazil

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ramos.jpg}

São Bernardo

New

A mordantly funny tale of a ruthless field hand who becomes master of a
dilapidated estate, where he meets a woman who challenges him in
unexpected ways.

 By Graciliano Ramos. Translated from the Portuguese by Padma
Viswanathan. Available May 5 from New York Review Books.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Dumont.jpg}

Schrödinger's Dog

A father and son with a close bond and shared love of diving must
confront the son's illness and his numbered days.

 By Martin Dumont. Translated from the French by John Cullen. Available
March 10 from Other Press. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/24/books/review/schrodingers-dog-martin-dumont-girls-story-annie-ernaux-finding-dora-maar-brigitte-benkemoun.html}{review}.

Hong Kong

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ho-Kei.jpg}

Second Sister

When a schoolgirl commits suicide in a Darwinian city, her older sister
believes there was more behind her death and hires a hacker to
investigate.

 By Chan Ho-Kei. Translated from the Chinese by Jeremy Tiang. Available
February 18 from Black Cat.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Merleau-Ponty.jpg}

The Sensible World and the World of Expression

A course of lectures given at the Collège de France by the chair of
philosophy, linking perception with art, language and other cultural
phenomena.

 By Maurice Merleau-Ponty. Translated from the French by Bryan Smyth.
Available January 22 from Northwestern University Press.

Turkey

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Livaneli.jpg}

Serenade for Nadia

Inspired by the 1942 sinking of a refugee ship, a professor returns to
the city where he last saw his wife.

 By Zulfu Livaneli. Translated from the Turkish by Brendan Freely.
Available March 3 from Other Press.

Colombia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Franco.jpg}

Shooting Down Heaven

After 12 years, a man returns to Colombia after his father is murdered
to find the rest of his family in disturbing situations.

 By Jorge Franco. Translated from the Spanish by Andrea Rosenberg.
Available May 15 from Europa.

Mauritius

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Patel.jpg}

Silence of the Chagos

As Charlesia tells a young man the story of how she was forced off the
island of Diego Garcia with its other inhabitants, he learns of the home
he never knew.

 By Shenaz Patel. Translated from the French by Jeffrey Zuckerman.
Available November 5 from Restless Books.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Wall.jpg}

A Silenced Voice

New

The authors' daughter, a journalist, died at age 30 while pursuing a
story in Copenhagen; here, her parents recount the harrowing facts.

 By Ingrid and Joachim Wall. Translated from the Swedish by Kathy
Saranpa. Available July 7 from Amazon Crossing.

Morocco

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Chraibi.jpg}

The Simple Past

A high schooler in Morocco rebels against French colonial authorities
and his wealthy and devout Muslim father.

 By Driss Chraïbi. Translated from the French by Hugh A. Harter.
Available January 7 from New York Review Books.

Russia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Shalamov.jpg}

Sketches of the Criminal World

Shalamov reports on life in the Gulag, on a quest to understand how
criminals are made and what the roots of evil are.

 By Varlam Shalamov. Translated from the Russian by Donald Rayfield.
Available January 14 from New York Review Books.

Lebanon

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Fakhreddine.jpg}

The Sky That Denied Me

Twenty intimate poems on familial connection and grief by a Lebanese
poet, translated by his daughter and Roger Allen.

 By Jawdat Fakhreddine. Translated from the Lebanese by Huda Fakhreddine
and Roger Allen. Available January 1 from University of Texas Press.

Argentina

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Camara.jpg}

Slum Virgin

New

A journalistic account of an Argentine town that was reorganized by a
transvestite, who renounced prostitution after an encounter with the
Virgin Mary, becomes complicated when the writer is seduced by the
subject of her own story.

 By Gabriela Cabezón Cámara. Translated from the Spanish by Frances
Riddle. Available August 25 from Charco Press.

Angola

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Agualusa.jpg}

The Society of Reluctant Dreamers

A man who interviews revolutionaries and writers in his dream life
encounters a woman who stages dreams in her artwork.

 By José Eduardo Agualusa. Translated from the Portuguese by Daniel
Hahn. Available March 10 from Archipelago Books. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/11/books/review-arturos-island-elsa-morante-ann-goldstein.html}{review}.

Italy

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Reviati.jpg}

Spit Three Times

In this graphic novel, Guido comes of age in the Italian countryside as
he interacts with a neighboring family who escaped a communist regime
and settled in the town after World War II.

 By Davide Reviati. Translated from the Italian by Jamie Richards.
Available May 19 from Seven Stories Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Barbery.jpg}

A Strange Country

Two young officers become enchanted by a friendly redhead in the cellar
of the Castillo, deserting their post to follow him into his world.

 By Muriel Barbery. Translated from the French by Alison Anderson.
Available April 14 from Europa.

Sweden

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Nesser.jpg}

The Summer of Kim Novak

New

Perusing a newspaper article about unsolved crimes, a man begins to
probe what happened on a lakeside vacation one summer, 25 years ago.

 By Hakan Nesser. Translated from the Swedish by Saskia Vogel. Available
June 2 from World Editions.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Brunet.jpg}

Summer of Reckoning

Two teenage sisters grow up in the South of France; when one becomes
pregnant and refuses to reveal her lover's identity, their father sets
out on a quest of rage and revenge.

 By Marion Brunet. Translated from the French by Katherine Gregor.
Available April 15 from Bitter Lemon Press.

Switzerland

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Stamm.jpg}

The Sweet Indifference of the World

In a blend of fiction and reality, a woman listens to a writer talking
about his romantic breakup and sees uncanny similarities to her own
relationship.

 By Peter Stamm. Translated from the German by Michael Hofmann.
Available January 21 from Other Press.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Ben-Naftali.jpg}

The Teacher

Thirty years after a low-profile and solitary English teacher commits
suicide, one of her students tries to understand her past.

 By Michal Ben-Naftali. Translated from the Hebrew by Daniella Zamir.
Available January 21 from Open Letter.

Hungary

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Szekely.jpg}

Temptation

A young man in Budapest gets a job at an elite hotel and is exposed to
the fascinating and dangerous cast of upper-class characters.

 By Janos Szekely. Translated from the Hungarian by Mark Baczoni.
Available April 7 from New York Review Books.

Argentina

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Bazterrica.jpg}

Tender Is the Flesh

New

An employee at a processing plant for edible human flesh is given a live
specimen to work with and, without meaning to, starts to form an
emotional attachment.

 By Agustina Bazterrica. Translated from the Spanish by Sarah Moses.
Available August 4 from Scribner.

China

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Calico1.jpg}

That We May Live

Seven stories in a new series collecting noteworthy speculative fiction
from writers in China and Hong Kong.

 By various authors. Translated from the Chinese by multiple
translators. Available March 10 from Two Lines Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Delabroy-Allard.jpg}

They Say Sarah

New

A teacher and mother becomes entangled in an intense affair with a young
female violinist she meets at a New Year's Eve party in Paris.

 By Pauline Delabroy-Allard. Translated from the French by Adriana
Hunter. Available June 2 from Other Press.

India

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Misra.jpg}

This Could Have Become Ramayan Chamar's Tale

New

Two ``anti-novels'' by the famous anarchist and activist interrogating
the sociopolitical orders of the world through a mix of novella,
reporting and autobiography.

 By Subimal Misra. Translated from the Bengali by V. Ramaswamy.
Available July 14 from Open Letter.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Bayard.jpg}

This Little Family

New

A pregnant woman suspects the father is the boss who raped her. This
debut follows her down a path of self-destruction.

 By Inès Bayard. Translated from the French by Adriana Hunter. Available
June 16 from Other Press.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Mishani.jpg}

Three

New

In the Holon neighborhood of Tel Aviv, three women from different walks
of life become entangled in a secret affair.

 By D.A. Mishani. Translated from the Hebrew by Jessica Cohen. Available
June 23 from Europa.

Israel

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Appelfeld1.jpg}

To the Edge of Sorrow

In this novel, narrated by 17-year-old Edmund, resistance fighters hide
in a Ukrainian forest, trying to survive and to free Jewish prisoners
from trains taking them to concentration camps.

 By Aharon Appelfeld. Translated from the Hebrew by Stuart Schoffman.
Available January 14 from Schocken.

Japan

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Miri.jpg}

Tokyo Ueno Station

New

The histories and rhythms of Tokyo come to life in the story of a ghost
that haunts one of its busiest train stations.

 By Yu Miri. Translated from the Japanese by Morgan Giles. Available
June 23 from Riverhead.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Pey.jpg}

Treasure of the Spanish Civil War and Other Tales

Glimpses into the lives of Spanish Civil War refugee families who fled
from Catalonia to France and were subsequently interned in prison camps
upon arrival.

 By Serge Pey. Translated from the French by Donald Nicholson-Smith.
Available February 18 from Archipelago Books.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Appanah.jpg}

Tropic of Violence

New

When his adoptive mother dies suddenly, a 13-year-old boy in Mayotte, a
French island between Africa and Madagascar, encounters gang violence
and other injustices of life in a forgotten land.

 By Nathacha Appanah. Translated from the French by Geoffrey Strachan.
Available May 19 from Graywolf Press.

Iraq

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Galidi.jpg}

Two Blankets, Three Sheets

A man flees Iraq to avoid being enlisted in Saddam Hussein's Army,
requesting asylum in Europe and spending nine years with 500 new
housemates.

 By Rodaan Al Galidi. Translated from the Dutch by Jonathan Reeder.
Available January 7 from World Editions.

Germany

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Kehlmann.jpg}

Tyll

When the church finds out about his father's interest in magic, this
novel's title character flees with the baker's daughter, encountering
various landscapes and characters along the way.

 By Daniel Kehlmann. Translated from the German by Ross Benjamin.
Available February 11 from Pantheon. Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/11/books/review/tyll-daniel-kehlmann.html}{review}.

Korea

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Suah.jpg}

Untold Night and Day

New

A young woman in Seoul spends a surreal summer night looking for her
missing elderly friend, caring for a poet in town, and walking the line
between dreams and reality.

 By Bae Suah. Translated from the Korean by Deborah Smith. Available May
5 from The Overlook Press.

Russia

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Krzhizhanovsky.jpg}

Unwitting Street

New

Eccentric and philosophical stories feature a pair of pants that rush
off to work, a hypnotist whose trick goes awry, and a goblet of
self-replenishing wine that leads its owner to drink.

 By Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky. Translated from the Russian by Joanne
Turnbull. Available August 18 from New York Review Books.

China

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Jingfang.jpg}

Vagabonds

Children from Mars visit Earth on a mission, then return home and
grapple with their experiences of the two planets.

 By Hao Jingfang. Translated from the Chinese by Ken Liu. Available
April 14 from Saga Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Goetz.jpg}

Villa of Delirium

New

The son of a servant is adopted by the wealthy Reinach family on the
French Riviera, entering a fin-de-siecle world of extravagant villas,
family pilgrimages and German occupation.

 By Adrien Goetz. Translated from the French by Natasha Lehrer.
Available May 5 from New Vessel Press.

France

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Conde.jpg}

The Wondrous and Tragic Life of Ivan and Ivana

New

Twins born in Guadeloupe watch their intense bond wax and wane over the
years, sometimes in violent ways.

 By Maryse Condé. Translated from the French by Richard Philcox.
Available May 5 from World Editions.

Turkey

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Varol.jpg}

Wûf

A love story set amid the turmoil of the Turkish-Kurdish civil war.

 By Kemal Varol. Translated from the Turkish by Dayla Rogers. Available
January 1 from University of Texas Press.

Ukraine

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/12/17/global-books/446c285e4b84fcabc4f4d7f2709b52c5a64696ed/books/Zabuzhko.jpg}

Your Ad Could Go Here

A story collection touching on the Orange Revolution, sibling rivalry
and tennis.

 By Oksana Zabuzhko. Translated from the Ukrainian by Halyna Hryn,
Askold Melnyczuk, Nina Murray, Marco Carynnyk and Marta Horban.
Available April 28 from Amazon Crossing.

Produced by Gray Beltran, Rebecca Lieberman and Tammy Tarng.

Read 12 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
