Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}Taco Mix FonteNova, With Cemitas,
Tacos and More, Opens in the Bronx

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ESlYmI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

off the menu

\hypertarget{taco-mix-fontenova-with-cemitas-tacos-and-more-opens-in-the-bronx}{%
\section{Taco Mix FonteNova, With Cemitas, Tacos and More, Opens in the
Bronx}\label{taco-mix-fontenova-with-cemitas-tacos-and-more-opens-in-the-bronx}}

A new spot from the team behind Osamil, a new cocktail cafe, and more
restaurant news.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/dining/02off/02off-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/florence-fabricant}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-florence-fabricant/author-florence-fabricant-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/florence-fabricant}{Florence
Fabricant}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{headliner}{%
\subsection{Headliner}\label{headliner}}

\hypertarget{taco-mix-fontenova}{%
\subsubsection{Taco Mix FonteNova}\label{taco-mix-fontenova}}

Jorge Sanchez, the Puebla, Mexico, native behind the Taco Mix taquerias
in East Harlem, has opened his first sit-down location in Riverdale, in
the Bronx. (He kept the previous restaurant's name, FonteNova, out
front.) For now, the brick-walled dining room with a stretch of bar is
not serving guests indoors, but there are a few tables out front and a
tidy little garden in back. Tacos al pastor, cemitas and tortas, like
those served at Mr. Sanchez's taquerias, anchor the menu, and his chef,
Juan Gomez, is planning to prepare clams casino, shrimp in chipotle
sauce, penne in a creamy marinara sauce with seafood, and stuffed
chicken breast for a menu with Mexican and Italian seafood.

216 West 242nd Street (Broadway), Riverdale, Bronx, 917-651-0504,
\href{https://www.tacomix.co/}{tacomix.co}.

\hypertarget{opening}{%
\subsection{Opening}\label{opening}}

\hypertarget{cafuxe9-salmagundi}{%
\subsubsection{Café Salmagundi}\label{cafuxe9-salmagundi}}

This Korean-American restaurant is from the team behind Osamil, in
Koreatown. Pork belly confit with ``burnt'' sunchoke purée, and branzino
with a kimchi vinaigrette, will be served. The restaurant is named after
a satirical periodical published by the writer Washington Irving. (The
term also refers to a mixed meat and vegetable dish, and is the name of
an art club on Fifth Avenue at 11th Street.) A lovely tented,
plant-ringed dining area in the street is what's opening for now. (Opens
Wednesday)

51 Irving Place (17th Street), 212-510-8383,
\href{http://salmagundi.com}{salmagundi.com}.

\hypertarget{festivuxe1l}{%
\subsubsection{Festivál}\label{festivuxe1l}}

Andrew Maturana, the chef, and Tyler Hollinger, the manager, own this
cocktail cafe, where nearby farms provide seasonal ingredients for
drinks and food. Inside, the sophisticated setting in blue, gray and
gold waits for indoor dining to be allowed, but for now there are 40
outdoor seats.

1155 Second Avenue (60th Street), 646-398-9686,
\href{https://www.festivalcafenyc.com/}{festivalcafenyc.com}.

\hypertarget{tong}{%
\subsubsection{Tong}\label{tong}}

Two chefs from the Isan region of northern Thailand, Sunisa Nitmai and
Chetkangwan Thipruetree, are presenting tastes from across their native
country. Small plates, like spicy beef tartare, fried chicken thighs,
well-seasoned oysters, and crispy rice with fermented sausage, are on
the menu. Guests dine outdoors for now, and can buy alcohol at a nearby
shop until the restaurant's liquor license is approved.

321 Starr Street (Cypress Avenue), Bushwick, Brooklyn, 718-366-0586,
\href{http://tongbrooklyn.com/}{tongbrooklyn.com}.

\hypertarget{sush1}{%
\subsubsection{Sush1}\label{sush1}}

Sushi at a buck per piece is available for pickup and delivery only at
this new Chelsea spot. It's an extension of a chain that started three
years ago in Brazil, before jumping to Mexico City. You can stick with
set assortments or devise your own from a modest menu of basic nigiri,
sashimi and rolls. Hand rolls are \$4 each, and there are also fried
rice bowls (yakimeshi) and teriyaki.

555 Avenue of the Americas (16th Street), 917-965-2201,
\href{http://sush1nyc.com/}{sush1nyc.com}.

\hypertarget{tempura-matsui-and-sushi-ryusei}{%
\subsubsection{Tempura Matsui and Sushi
Ryusei}\label{tempura-matsui-and-sushi-ryusei}}

Suffering from the pandemic slowdown, two restaurants near each other
have joined forces to serve the food of both on the same menu. Tempura
Matsui's chef, Kiyoshi Chikano, has created some new items, including
sliced tempura over rice, and tempura chirashi, and also serves soba
noodles from the noodle expert Koichi Endo. Sushi Ryusei's chef and an
owner, Masato Oyama, formerly of Sushi of Gari, provides a long list of
seafood options by the piece or as omakase. Sushi Ryusei has outdoor
seating, and offers takeout and delivery. Tempura Matsui offers pickup,
and will begin outdoor seating on Wednesday.

Tempura Matsui, 222 East 39th Street, 212-986-8885,
\href{http://tempuramatsui.com/}{tempuramatsui.com}. Sushi Ryusei, 216
East 39th Street, 212-983-8880,
\href{https://www.sushiryusei.com/}{sushiryusei.com}.

\hypertarget{tzarevna}{%
\subsubsection{Tzarevna}\label{tzarevna}}

This Lower East Side spot, which opened last year, was serving a modern
take on Russian food. Now it will start to feature more classic Russian
fare like borscht, khachapuri and beef stroganoff. There's outdoor
seating. (Wednesday)

154 Orchard Street (Stanton Street), 917-388-2814,
\href{https://www.tzarevna.nyc/}{tzarevna.nyc}.

\hypertarget{drift-in}{%
\subsubsection{Drift In}\label{drift-in}}

This is the latest from Summer Ops, a company that creates, builds and
runs waterfront restaurants in New York, including Grand Banks and
Island Oyster, and has one in New Orleans. They specialize in seafood,
and the executive chef, Kerry Heffernan, oversees the food for all
locations. This new venture has 100 seats outdoors for now, and will be
adding another 30.

Pier 45 (West 10th Street),
\href{https://www.driftin.nyc/}{driftin.nyc}.

\hypertarget{frenchette-and-estela-at-rockefeller-center}{%
\subsubsection{Frenchette and Estela at Rockefeller
Center}\label{frenchette-and-estela-at-rockefeller-center}}

Picnics by Frenchette and Estela are now available at the Rink, a
centerpiece of Rockefeller Center that allows for ice skating in winter.
Frenchette, which will be serving on Wednesdays and Thursdays, will
serve corn vichyssoise, a terrine, lobster salad, cold leg of lamb and
assorted vegetables and desserts. Estela's dinner, available on Fridays
and Saturdays, features snacks and spreads and a seafood tower. Each
picnic is \$125 per person. Shaded, well-spaced tables are available,
and the dinners, starting at 5 p.m., must be booked in advance. Next
year, Frenchette is scheduled to open a full-service restaurant in the
former Brasserie Ruhlmann space nearby. (Thursday)

The Rink at Rockefeller Center,
\href{https://www.rockefellercenter.com/}{rockefellercenter.com}.

\hypertarget{red-door-grill}{%
\subsubsection{Red Door Grill}\label{red-door-grill}}

This branch of a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., restaurant is a newcomer to East
Hampton, with a vast menu of Japanese, Thai and Chinese dishes. Worth
noting are the fortune cookies with messages exhorting participation in
the census. Examples: ``Don't be left out. You matter. Census 2020.''
``You are not a bot. Be Counted. Census 2020.'' ``Do it for your
community. 2020 Census.'' ``Eat me. Then be counted. Take the 2020
Census.''

352 Montauk Highway, Wainscott, N.Y., 631-658-9898,
\href{http://rdgrill.com/}{rdgrill.com}.

\hypertarget{looking-ahead}{%
\subsection{Looking Ahead}\label{looking-ahead}}

\hypertarget{revolution-hospitality}{%
\subsubsection{Revolution Hospitality}\label{revolution-hospitality}}

Ravi DeRossi confessed to having too much time on his hands during the
pandemic. The result? He has restructured his 16-year-old East Village
dining and drinking empire, giving it this new name and making changes
in several of his restaurants. ``I went plant-based in all my
restaurants five years ago, and it's time for a name to reflect that
we've become more mission-driven,'' he said. He closed Mother of Pearl,
Night Music and Honeybees. He is expanding his popular bar Amor y
Amargo, and plans for it to share an expanded space at 95 Avenue A
(Sixth Street), with a shop selling bar equipment and ingredients, to
open in about a week. A new Filipino restaurant, Saramsam, will soon
replace Night Music, which was Indian. Cadence, serving soul-food bar
bites, will take over the space of Desnuda, a ceviche bar, which has
closed. It will make its debut in a few weeks, depending on the pandemic
restrictions. Mr. DeRossi remains a partner in Death \& Co., a chain of
bars in several cities that is not part of his hospitality group.

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.youtube.com/nytcooking}{\emph{YouTube}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get
regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips
and shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
