Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Can We Call Trump a Killer?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CEL1IU}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{can-we-call-trump-a-killer}{%
\section{Can We Call Trump a Killer?}\label{can-we-call-trump-a-killer}}

There is no way to remove his culpability in the neglectful handling of
the coronavirus.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/charles-m-blow}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/charles-m-blow/charles-m-blow-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/charles-m-blow}{Charles M. Blow}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/24/opinion/24blowWEb/24blowWEb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The coronavirus pandemic is still raging in this country. In fact, in
more than 20 states, the number of cases is rising. More than 120,000
Americans have died from the virus. This country has a quarter of all
the cases in the world even though it makes up only 4 percent of the
world population.

Things are so bad here that the European Union, which has lowered its
rates, is considering
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/world/europe/coronavirus-EU-American-travel-ban.html}{banning
U.S. citizens} when it reopens its borders.

This situation is abysmal, and it would not have been so bad if
President Trump had not intentionally neglected his duty to protect
American citizens.

From the beginning, Trump has used every opportunity to downplay the
virus,
\href{https://factba.se/transcript/donald-trump-speech-kag-rally-manchester-new-hampshire-february-10-2020}{claiming
in February,}``Looks like by April, you know, in theory, when it gets a
little warmer, it miraculously goes away.'' Well, we're now in June,
summer. It's not just warm, it's hot. And the cases in the hottest
states --- those in the South and Southwest --- are surging.

Trump has consistently been resistant to testing, falsely claiming that
an increase in testing is somehow linked to an increase in cases. But in
fact, the more you test, the more you are able to control the virus by
identifying, isolating and treating the infected, thereby reducing the
spread of the virus. Testing is how you reduce your cases. It is also
how you save lives.

But Trump believes that to reveal the true extent of the virus's
presence in this country would make him look bad. So more people get
sick and more people die.

\href{https://www.marketwatch.com/story/trump-says-coronavirus-testing-overratedclaims-fewer-cases-if-no-testing-2020-05-14}{He
said in May:} ``When you test, you have a case. When you test, you find
something is wrong with people. If we didn't do any testing, we would
have very few cases. They don't want to write that. It's common sense.
We test much more.''

What Trump is truly saying here is, let people get sick without proper
surveillance. He is saying, let them suffer out of sight. He is saying,
some will die, but so what. He is saying vulnerable Americans are
collateral damage in his image-making and re-election bid.

At his rally in Tulsa, Trump took a step deeper into the darkness,
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/trump-slow-down-testing-coronavirus-i-dont-kid/}{saying}:
``When you do testing to that extent you're going to find more people,
you're going to find cases. So I said to my people, `Slow the testing
down, please.' They test and they test. We got tests for people who
don't know what's going on.''

If there actually was a slowdown, it allowed the virus to spread and
more people to get sick and die.

Trump stood in the White House briefing room and
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33QdTOyXz3w}{suggested that
injecting disinfectant} into the body could possibly cure the virus,
known officially as SARS-CoV-2. After this insane and dangerous remark,
states
\href{https://people.com/health/states-report-spike-in-poison-control-calls-after-trump-disinfectant-comments/}{saw
a spike} in poison control calls. A survey for the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention found that
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6923e2.htm?s_cid=mm6923e2_w}{a
third of Americans} were ``engaged in non-recommended high-risk
practices with the intent of preventing SARS-CoV-2 transmission,
including using bleach on food products, applying household cleaning and
disinfectant products to skin and inhaling or ingesting cleaners and
disinfectants.''

Trump pushed the use of hydroxychloroquine, without sufficient
scientific backing, to prevent transmission of the virus or to treat
infection, even saying that he
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/trump-says-he-s-no-longer-taking-hydroxychloroquine-n1214301}{took
a course of it himself}. The Food and Drug Administration approved an
emergency use of the drug for Covid-19. The federal government began to
stockpile it. States requested doses from the federal stockpile. Then,
researchers found that Covid-19 patients were more likely to die if they
took the drug, not less likely.

During the height of the crisis, some states experienced a
\href{https://khn.org/morning-breakout/amid-grave-shortage-of-ventilators-some-hospitals-start-sharing-between-patients-searching-for-alternatives/}{shortage
of ventilators} to treat gravely ill patients.
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/24/politics/fact-check-trump-16000-ventilators-stockpile-obama/index.html}{Trump
claimed} that the Obama administration had left no ventilators in the
national stockpile, that there were ``empty cupboards.'' In truth, his
own administration confirmed a few days ago that
\href{https://www.factcheck.org/2020/06/trump-inherited-more-ventilators-than-have-been-distributed/}{16,660
ventilators were availabl}e for use when Trump took office and in March,
and outrageously the Trump administration had distributed only 10,760 of
them as of Tuesday. States were scrambling for ventilators to keep
people alive, and the Trump administration held some back.

This all says nothing of Trump's lag in using the Defense Production Act
to more quickly get supplies to cities and states.

Trump then pressured states to reopen economically even before those
states met the administration's own guidelines for reopening. Now, many
of the states that quickly reopened, no doubt in part to please the
president, are the same ones in which cases are rising and more people
than necessary are dying.

Trump has even mocked the wearing of masks, which experts say is a
proven way to reduce virus transmission.

Now Trump is having another mask-optional rally with yelling people
sitting and standing close together, a blatant violation of social
distancing rules.

It seems that in every possible way, Trump has willfully and arrogantly
put more Americans at risk of getting sick and dying, and the results
have been inevitable: More Americans got sick and died.

There is no way to remove Trump's culpability in this. If your feeble
effort saves two lives when an earnest, robust, science-driven effort
would have saved four, are you not responsible for the two deaths?

At this point, how do we not label Trump a killer of American citizens
by negligence, ignorance and incompetence?

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}} \emph{and}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter
(@NYTopinion)}}\emph{, and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
