Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}U.K. Declares Coronavirus
`Imminent Threat' as Europe Scrambles

\url{https://nyti.ms/39p03O8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92faac00-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92fad310-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92fad311-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92fad312-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92fad313-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=92fad314-f1ce-11ea-b607-5f01091b4cf2\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{uk-declares-coronavirus-imminent-threat-as-europe-scrambles}{%
\section{U.K. Declares Coronavirus `Imminent Threat' as Europe
Scrambles}\label{uk-declares-coronavirus-imminent-threat-as-europe-scrambles}}

The declaration lets English public health officials isolate individuals
who may have contracted the virus. It came as the number of cases in the
country rose to eight on Monday.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/10/world/10virus-europe01/merlin_168628281_06dce942-5e68-4dfb-9230-943c7619e371-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/megan-specia}{Megan
Specia} and Constant MÃ©heut

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Feb. 10, 2020Updated Feb. 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- Britain's health department declared the new coronavirus an
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/secretary-of-state-makes-new-regulations-on-coronavirus}{``imminent
threat''} to public health and announced a series of measures to combat
the spread of the virus, a sign of the seriousness with which local
health authorities are treating the fears of the epidemic.

The newly introduced measures --- which apply only in England --- are
among the first in Europe to allow the health authorities to keep
individuals in quarantine if public health professionals believe they
may be at risk of spreading the virus.

Four more people in Britain linked to a cluster of transmissions at a
ski resort in France tested positive for the coronavirus, bringing the
total number of cases in the country to eight, the health department
announced Monday.

The coronavirus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/china-wuhan-coronavirus-maps.html}{has
sickened more than 40,500 people}, mostly in China, and at least 910
people have died since the virus first emerged in Wuhan, a city of 11
million people in the central part of the country late last year. Since
that time, the virus has also spread to
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{at
least 24 countries},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/02/health/coronavirus-pandemic-china.html}{triggering
fears of a global pandemic.}

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/14/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{\emph{China
says 1,700 health workers have contracted coronavirus.}}\emph{{]}}

The Department of Health and Social Care emphasized that the risk of
contracting the coronavirus in Britain remained ``moderate,'' even as
the government empowered the health authorities to forcibly quarantine
people. It also designated a hospital, near Liverpool, and a conference
center, northwest of London, as isolation facilities for those placed
under quarantine.

``I will do everything in my power to keep people in this country
safe,'' Matt Hancock, Britain's health secretary,
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/health-secretary-announces-strengthened-legal-powers-to-bolster-public-health-protections-against-coronavirus}{said
in a statement}. ``We are taking every possible step to control the
outbreak of coronavirus.''

He added that it meant health care providers would be ``supported with
additional legal powers to keep people safe across the country,'' noting
transmission of the coronavirus would ``constitute a serious threat.''

The new measures were announced a day after a repatriation flight from
Hubei Province --- Wuhan is the largest city in the area --- carrying
about 200 citizens from Britain and elsewhere landed at an air force
base in central England. British passengers were taken to the Kents Hill
Park conference center, about 50 miles northwest of London, for 14 days
of quarantine.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/10/world/10virus-europe02/10virus-europe02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Twenty Germans who were on board the evacuation flight were brought to a
Red Cross hospital in Berlin. Like 126 Germans who were picked up from
Wuhan earlier this month, those who arrived at the weekend agreed to a
quarantine time of two weeks. There are 14 known cases of the virus
across Germany.

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/world/europe/coronavirus-britain-steve-walsh.html}{\emph{U.K.
businessman linked to coronavirus cluster comes forward.}}\emph{{]}}

By Monday morning, eight people in England had tested positive for the
coronavirus,
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/chief-medical-officer-for-england-announces-four-further-coronavirus-cases}{according
to a statement from Professor Chris Whitty}, the Department of Health's
Chief Medical Officer for England, doubling from a day earlier the known
cases in the country.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-08T12:22:35.182Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-46162376}{Trillions
  of dollars separate lawmakers' proposals for virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-679303d7}{Nine
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet any coronavirus vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c973131}{`The
  lockdown killed my father': Farmer suicides add to India's virus
  misery.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``The new cases are all known contacts of a previously confirmed U.K.
case, and the virus was passed on in France,'' Professor Whitty said in
a statement. ``Experts at Public Health England continue to work hard
tracing patient contacts from the U.K. cases. They successfully
identified these individuals and ensured the appropriate support was
provided.''

The new cases in Britain are linked to cases in France, according to the
French health authorities which all
\href{https://www.dailymotion.com/video/x7rnsoh}{trace back to a group
of British citizens staying in a chalet} in the Alpine village of Les
Contamines-Montjoie, near Switzerland, late last month.

A British man at the center of the transmissions is believed to have
contracted the coronavirus while attending a conference in Singapore,
before flying to Geneva on Jan. 24, and from there the village, where he
shared lodgings with a group of fellow Britons.

The man then returned to Britain on Jan. 28 on an easyJet flight, the
budget airline confirmed in an emailed statement. He is among the eight
people in Britain who have tested positive for the virus.

EasyJet said in an emailed statement that it had been notified by the
public health authorities that a customer who had recently traveled on
flight EZS8481 from Geneva to London Gatwick on Jan. 28 had since
received a coronavirus diagnosis.

``Public Health England is contacting all passengers who were seated in
the vicinity of the customer,'' the company said in a statement, but
noted that since the man had not been experiencing any symptoms, the
risk to others on board the flight was ``very low.''

At least one of the people who tested positive for the virus was
confirmed to be from Brighton, a seaside town on England's south coast,
and the BBC reported on Monday that the County Oak medical center there
had to shut its doors after
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-51447761}{a member of staff tested
positive for the virus}.

A message on the center's answering machine indicated it had been closed
for an ``urgent operational health and safety reason.''

Public Health England confirmed that two of the cases of coronavirus in
Britain were health care workers. Yvonne Doyle, Public Health England's
medical director, said in a statement that all of the new cases
announced on Monday were ``closely linked to one another.''

``Our priority has been to speak to those who have close and sustained
contact with confirmed cases, so we can advise them on what they can do
to limit the spread of the virus,'' she said. ``We are now working
urgently to identify all patients and other health care workers who may
have come into close contact, and at this stage we believe this to be a
relatively small number.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
âº}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A pub near Brighton in Hove, The Grenadier, said in a
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/thegrenadier/posts/620833655361749?__xts__\%5B0\%5D=68.ARCcECQenKv0mP5H_9Xqdz0l9ZPK9eD5ipbnnR2ZPR-AWq6od8K3R4oH72iu8MMZlT75bgkQgBSIWQsC7WwRqqoJ6eSXzN8LBOfay970oaMyxcYoJbgkDP6_wBuCyrvQQtgaB5-GIBJu-gpxNvXcbtxSRfb0BgpQBPmOWjk718Cl47XnlfW0jvqU52SIj04PyzgNrAjySElFTv1-0HaUpIrgTMh2ZeCZ8kjODcMVe2Mj_jkY4U618_jaXSXRhDxXgMTj8lasZM3W8b8HQ0NWgPrq659Lj2RT3J7RI6qBuQ8YPBC5XNReeCq25pHqkYyvY3pvw8lNe_eEGvJShCN-lpM\&__tn__=-R}{statement
on its Facebook page} that a person confirmed to have the virus had
visited the establishment, but that Public Health England had determined
there was minimal risk, and it was following official advice to remain
open.

Image

Cleaning at the pharmacy attached to the County Oak Medical Center in
Brighton on Monday. The center was closed after a worker was found to
have the coronavirus.Credit...Glyn Kirk/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

At least \href{https://www.dailymotion.com/video/x7rmoy6}{five other
Britons who stayed in the chalet and are still in France have tested
positive for the coronavirus}, said AgnÃ¨s Buzyn, France's health
minister. They are among at least 11 people in France who have tested
positive for the disease.

A 9-year-old boy was among the British people who contracted the virus
in the ski village. According to a spokeswoman for the region, the child
is a permanent resident of the village, where he lives with his father,
who also contracted the virus, and two siblings. His mother is currently
in Britain.

He attended a local school in Les Contamines-Montjoie and took French
lessons in two nearby schools in Saint-Gervais and Thonon-Les-Bains. As
a precaution, the three schools have all been closed for the week and
fellow students are being tested.

Six other British people staying in the chalet have all tested negative
for the virus, according to the head of France's national health agency,
JÃ©rome Salomon.

The French health authorities said they were still in the process of
determining exactly how many people were staying in the chalet and who
may have come into contact with those carrying the coronavirus.

Ms. Buzyn, the health minister, visited the ski resort on Sunday.

``It is important to reassure the people of this village,'' she said.
``We have to tell them that there is no risk when you meet people on the
street, it's not the same as being in contact with an infected person.''

``It's about close, sustained, face-to-face or physical contact,'' she
added.

A crisis unit has been opened in Les Contamines-Montjoie, where testing
is underway to determine if there are further cases of the coronavirus.

On Sunday night, Mr. Salomon, the head of the national health agency,
announced that results from 21 samples had all tested negative and that
25 others were still being analyzed.

``It's already very good news,'' he said.

Etienne Jacquet, the mayor of Les Contamines-Montjoie, said in a phone
interview that students who might have been in contact with the infected
child underwent tests as a priority on Sunday. He said the precautionary
measures made the village, in his opinion, the ``most secure city in
France'' when it came to the coronavirus.

``In Les Contamines-Montjoie life goes on normally,'' Mr. Jacquet said.
``For the moment there is absolutely no crisis.''

Megan Specia reported from London and Constant MÃ©heut reported from
Paris. Christopher F. Schuetze contributed reporting from Berlin.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
