Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Seeks a Cultural Safe
Space Amid a Deadly Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/2V6eG3U}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Political Memo

\hypertarget{trump-seeks-a-cultural-safe-space-amid-a-deadly-pandemic}{%
\section{Trump Seeks a Cultural Safe Space Amid a Deadly
Pandemic}\label{trump-seeks-a-cultural-safe-space-amid-a-deadly-pandemic}}

In his first rally since the global coronavirus pandemic suspended the
campaign trail, President Trump played the hits.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/20/us/politics/20Tulsa-memo/20Tulsa-memo-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 21, 2020Updated July 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

TULSA, Okla. --- The difference between a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-nh-rally-postponed.html}{rally}
for Joseph R. Biden Jr. and one for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/style/trump-tulsa-tie.html}{President
Trump} starts with the attire.

There is no official uniform for either event, but while those who come
out for Mr. Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, show little
pattern in their dress, there's a unity to Mr. Trump's biggest fans. A
red hat is an obvious
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/22/us/politics/trump-rally-coronavirus.html}{rally}
must. Without the cap, American flag colors will do, or a T-shirt that
insults one of the president's political archenemies --- Hillary
Clinton, Barack Obama or a mainstream media outlet, for starters.

Packing recently for his first Trump rally, Donald Fanning of Wichita,
Kan., made sure to dress the part. On Saturday night in Tulsa, he wore
an American-flag T-shirt along with American-flag suspenders that were
hitched to American-flag swimming trunks.

And, in sync with many other Trump supporters, Mr. Fanning did not wear
a mask, even though the rally was the president's first event since the
coronavirus pandemic ground the campaign trail to a halt.

Why? Because the virus was ``a scare tactic more than anything,'' Mr.
Fanning said. ``And I just don't believe all those deaths are
coronavirus.''

He wound up being one of a crowd of 6,200 in an arena that houses
19,000, according to estimates from local officials.

The view that greeted the president as he took the stage was surprising:
a half-empty arena floor. However, once stripped of the visual, Mr.
Trump's speech featured a familiar set list. He unsheathed attacks
against Democratic opponents, casting party members as out-of-touch
socialists. He derided the news media. He put specific focus on
progressive women of color, including Representatives Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota.

But more than any attack --- personal or policy --- Mr. Trump doubled
down on a stubborn strategy of narrow focus, blocking out the onslaught
of challenges facing the country in favor of describing the United
States as he wished it to be. The Tulsa rally was, more than anything, a
safe space of Mr. Trump's own creation, however personally unhealthy for
his supporters or politically ill-suited for his re-election. (Oklahoma
is \href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/2016/results/oklahoma}{not a
swing state}.)

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html}{Inside
the Bank of Oklahoma Center} on Saturday night, there was no coronavirus
pandemic to worry about, even as Oklahoma reported an increase in
positive cases. Testing was derided as a ``double-edged sword,'' with
the president disclosing he had told advisers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html}{to
slow it down}. The national protests about racial inequality and police
brutality, the president said, were the result of a few rogue officers,
not evidence of systemic racism.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/20/us/politics/20Tulsa-memo4/merlin_173759955_d8b6c04a-1eaa-4950-8d95-ca112a7dc5c5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Asked about the existence of racism, Mr. Fanning invoked the names of
black civil rights leaders: ``Get rid of Jesse Jackson and Sharpton and
you'll get rid of racism,'' he said, referring to the Rev. Al Sharpton.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Jeff Eskew, a 52-year-old from Oklahoma City, dismissed the virus.
``I've been watching this closely over the last four months or so, and
the numbers just don't add up to me.''

``Give me liberty or give me corona,'' he said, paraphrasing the famous
phrase of revolution from Patrick Henry.

The entire scene, from speaker to speaker, brought to mind the famous
words of Kevin Bacon's character in ``Animal House,'' as chaos erupted
around him: ``Remain calm. All is well.''

Even Mr. Trump's own political standing, increasingly in peril
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/us/politics/trump-campaign-virus-protests-polls.html}{as
polls show him losing ground} among key demographics like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/09/us/politics/trump-older-voters-2020.html}{older
adults} and suburban women, came across sounding stronger than ever ---
on a glide path to re-election against a bumbling Democratic opponent
who would destroy the country.

``If the Democrats gain power, then the rioters will be in charge and no
one will be safe and no one will have control,'' said Mr. Trump,
straining to redefine his opponent. ``Joe Biden is not the leader of his
party. Joe Biden is a helpless puppet of the radical left.''

But the president's attempts to revive the showmanship that helped make
him famous could not obscure his own political challenges. In Oklahoma,
a deeply conservative state where his victory in November is largely
assured, the campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/politics/tulsa-trump-rally.html}{fell
well short of its attendance goals}, leading to the embarrassing
spectacle of empty seats. The gap between attendance predictions and
reality delighted Mr. Trump's opponents, befuddled his allies and even
involved teenage users of TikTok, who claimed credit for boosting the
campaign's expectations with false sign-ups and bad data.

By Sunday, the campaign released a statement pushing back on the idea
that online efforts to diminish attendance had worked.

Six of Mr. Trump's own campaign staff members tested positive for the
coronavirus before the rally, underlining the persistent threat posed by
the pandemic.

Image

National Guard members formed a human wall to separate protesters from
Trump supporters as both sides yelled at each other near the site of
Saturday's rally.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

The Juneteenth holiday weekend also showed how Mr. Trump's handling of
race, and specifically his relationship with black Americans, continues
to be a flash point.

Leaders of Mr. Trump's campaign often assert that they can make inroads
with black voters before the election, but self-inflicted errors have
complicated such efforts. This past week alone, the campaign received
substantial blowback for initially announcing the rally on June 19 in
Tulsa, considering that the city was the site of one of the country's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/20/us/tulsa-greenwood-massacre.html}{deadliest
racist massacres} and that the date marked Juneteenth, which
commemorates black emancipation. Community leaders were also upset that
Mr. Trump's allies, perhaps to atone for its initial announcement,
floated the idea that Mr. Trump or Vice President Mike Pence might tour
the Greenwood neighborhood where the 1921 massacre took place. Such a
visit would have required strict safety measures and jeopardized the
Juneteenth celebration, which drew thousands of attendees.

The poor results could be a harbinger for the general election. Mr.
Trump and his allies fell short of attendance expectations with a
strategy that exclusively relied on motivating his base of predominantly
white conservatives. At the same time, they fueled a backlash from
racially diverse Tulsans who mobilized quickly, enraged by a president
who they say is not fit to govern for all.

Mr. Trump is ``inciting people because he wants them to react,'' said
Mr. Jackson, the civil rights activist and former presidential candidate
mentioned by Mr. Fanning. Reached by telephone, Mr. Jackson said Mr.
Trump ``wants to run on law and order,'' and the Tulsa rally was another
example.

Kevin Matthews, a Democratic state senator from Tulsa, said he believed
Mr. Trump's approach to Tulsa had backfired, partially because of a
failure to communicate with local black leaders.

``We were not consulted on a monumental visit to our area,'' Mr.
Matthews said, describing the president's attitude toward Tulsa's black
community as ``We know what's best for you.''

If such feedback were heeded, it could be a wake-up call for a
Republican Party that has, to this point, dismissed bad polling and
unfavorable electoral results as outliers. But if the pattern of the
Trump administration holds, a president whose first dance after being
inaugurated was to Frank Sinatra's ``My Way'' will continue to operate
in that fashion.

Image

Supporters preparing for Mr. Trump's rally outside the Bank of Oklahoma
Center.Credit...Chris Creese for The New York Times

At the Bank of Oklahoma Center, many of his supporters said they did not
want Mr. Trump to change any more than they themselves wanted to change.

They roared with approval when he called the coronavirus ``Kung Flu,'' a
racist nickname even one of his own senior advisers, Kellyanne Conway,
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/488276-kellyanne-conway-says-its-highly-offensive-to-refer-to-coronavirus-as}{once
called ``highly offensive}.'' Chants broke out of ``Lock her up,''
evoking the 2016 presidential campaign, even as the Democratic Party has
moved on from Mrs. Clinton. Some people wore Confederate flags. Others
brought signs that supported the QAnon conspiracy theory that claims the
existence of a ``deep state'' plot against Mr. Trump and his supporters.
(One of the president's sons, Eric Trump,
\href{https://twitter.com/jaredlholt/status/1274415729333415938?s=20}{posted
a QAnon image} to his Instagram page on Saturday afternoon before
deleting it shortly afterward.)

Trina Moore, 61, drove 10 hours from Denver to attend the rally. Her
children are essential workers on the front lines of the pandemic, she
said.

``I've been home all by myself during quarantine and I wanted a reason
to go somewhere,'' Ms. Moore said. ``I just don't believe in the virus
thing. I'd go to Europe. I'd get on a plane. I'd do whatever.''

Cloth masks were given to every attendee at the security entrance, but
few sported them inside. Asked where his free mask was, Mr. Eskew
laughed.

``I threw it in the trash,'' he said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
