Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Does Vote-by-Mail Favor
Democrats? No. It's a False Argument by Trump.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XlIonH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{does-vote-by-mail-favor-democrats-no-its-a-false-argument-by-trump}{%
\section{Does Vote-by-Mail Favor Democrats? No. It's a False Argument by
Trump.}\label{does-vote-by-mail-favor-democrats-no-its-a-false-argument-by-trump}}

Even some Republican officials, disagreeing with the president, say that
vote-by-mail has not hurt the G.O.P. in elections.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/09/us/politics/09votebymail-favortism/09votebymail-favortism-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 10, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump said that if the United States switched to
all-\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-mail-voting-fraud.html}{mail
voting}, ``you'd never have a Republican elected in this country
again.''

The G.O.P. speaker of the House in Georgia said an all-mail election
would be
``\href{https://www.ajc.com/news/state—regional-govt—politics/pressure-mounts-for-further-delay-georgia-may-primary-election/K1wboFdcY1z7xYt7pa11MO/}{extremely
devastating to Republicans}.''

Representative Thomas Massie, a Kentucky Republican,
\href{https://twitter.com/repthomasmassie/status/1242573156776378371}{said
universal mail voting} would be ``the end of our republic as we know
it.''

Yet leading experts who have studied voting by mail say none of that is
true.

As with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{false
claims by Republicans about vote-by-mail fraud}, there is no evidence to
back up the argument from the right that all-mail elections favor
Democrats. But Mr. Trump and some of his allies are warning that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/19/us/politics/nyc-vote-by-mail.html}{vote-by-mail}
poses an existential threat to their party, in hopes of galvanizing
Republican opposition to a voting method that is widely seen as safer
than in-person voting in the era of the coronavirus.

Five states --- Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Washington --- now
have
\href{https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/all-mail-elections.aspx}{all-mail}
elections, in which ballots are sent to every registered voter without
their having to request one. Others, like Arizona and California, allow
voters to add themselves to a permanent list of mail voters.

And there are also cases like Nebraska, which allows counties of less
than 10,000 people to mail ballots to all voters (many of them
Republicans) but forbids it in large urban areas (where many voters are
Democrats). Texas allows no-excuse absentee voting for people 65 or
older, another group that skews Republican.

None of these states have seen an appreciable shift favoring Democrats
that officials and experts attribute to mail voting. Here are a few
reasons.

\hypertarget{what-happens-to-partisan-turnout-after-a-switch-to-mail-voting}{%
\subsection{What happens to partisan turnout after a switch to mail
voting?}\label{what-happens-to-partisan-turnout-after-a-switch-to-mail-voting}}

Not much that hadn't happened before.

The main argument by Mr. Trump and other Republicans is threefold:
Voting by mail is easier than going to the polls; more people will vote
if the process is easier; and when larger numbers of people vote, more
will vote for Democrats.

But in the states and counties that have transitioned to all-mail
voting, there has been little evidence of partisan advantage for either
side because of mail voting, said Robert Stein, a Rice University
professor who has helped put in place vote-by-mail systems.

Amelia Showalter, who was the data analytics director for President
Barack Obama's 2012 campaign, found in deeply reported studies of
\href{https://www.voteathome.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/Colorado-2014-voter-turnout-study.pdf}{all-mail
elections in Colorado in 2014} and
\href{https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/ef45f5_fcc651c4d4f1456b8340bb4c2cc0ca12.pdf}{Utah
in 2016} that there were very slight partisan advantages in each race.

The Colorado study found that Republicans outperformed their predicted
turnout in 2014 by a slightly higher margin than did Democrats. The
G.O.P.'s candidate for Senate, Cory Gardner, ousted the Democratic
incumbent, Senator Mark Udall, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2014/colorado-elections}{Republicans
won three of the four other statewide races on the ballot}.

Two years later, in Utah, Democrats gained an equally slight advantage
in counties that had switched to all-mail voting.

Both states saw overall turnout increase --- especially among those
voters considered least likely to participate in the elections.

``That was a more noticeable effect among low-propensity voters,'' Ms.
Showalter said. ``These are people who aren't the die-hards who are
going to vote in every election. They're not going to vote in every
partisan primary.''

Even before the coronavirus emerged as a global threat, Democrats had
generally favored ways to expand access to voting by mail, while
Republicans frequently argued in favor of tightening voter
identification and registration requirements, claiming without evidence
that easing restrictions invited voter fraud.

This wasn't always the case. Republicans in Florida and Arizona, states
with large populations of retirees, who tend to skew Republican, have
pushed for years to expand vote-by-mail.

Thad Kousser, the chairman of the political science department at the
University of California, San Diego, said that voting by mail in
California was historically seen as especially helpful to older people
and rural voters, who are more likely to be Republican. He called Mr.
Trump's statements a ``gross exaggeration of any partisan effect we're
likely to see.''

``There are still Republicans elected in many of the areas that have
voting by mail,'' Dr. Kousser said. ``Democrats and Republicans alike
appreciate this option.''

\hypertarget{so-what-difference-does-universal-vote-by-mail-make}{%
\subsection{So, what difference does universal vote-by-mail
make?}\label{so-what-difference-does-universal-vote-by-mail-make}}

Ms. Showalter's studies of Colorado and Utah found that mailing ballots
to all voters did tend to increase turnout. And Oregon and Washington,
the states that pioneered all-mail elections, have long been among the
highest-turnout states in presidential elections.

A 2013 study of voters in Washington by professors at Yale and the
University of California, San Diego, found that voting by mail increased
turnout by two to four percentage points, with low-participating voters
more likely to be influenced than others.

But it was impossible to tell whether those voters were Republicans or
Democrats, according to one of the study's authors, Gregory Huber, a
professor of political science at Yale.

``Whether the marginal nonvoter --- the person induced to vote by the
availability of vote-by-mail --- is Democrat or Republican is less
clear,'' Dr. Huber said in an email, referring to voters who are
ambivalent about the process and decide based on outside events.

Filling out a ballot at home also affords people more time to think
about their vote. Research by Dr. Stein, the Rice University professor,
found that voters spent about three and a half minutes when they went to
a voting booth, but took about two days to complete a ballot they had
received at home.

``Vote-by-mail has a way of affecting voter turnout in a way that we
don't always think about,'' he said. ``It increases turnout and
attention for races that you would expect people would not vote for,
like county judges and people you've never heard of.''

\hypertarget{does-vote-by-mail-favor-democrats}{%
\subsection{Does vote-by-mail favor
Democrats?}\label{does-vote-by-mail-favor-democrats}}

Charles Stewart III, a professor of political science at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the evidence so far on which
party benefits had been inconclusive, citing numbers from the 2016 North
Carolina election showing that Republicans were more likely to vote by
mail than Democrats.

Ms. Showalter found the biggest turnout difference in all-mail elections
came among people who were the least likely to vote. These voters tend
to pay the least attention to politics and are the most ideologically
flexible.

In fact, all-mail voting makes some Democrats nervous. One reason is the
finding in some studies that black and Latino voters --- two key groups
in the party's base --- are less likely to embrace mail voting than
white voters.

Dr. Kousser pointed to a survey of California voters that revealed
differences along racial and ethnic lines in voting by mail, with black
and Latino voters about five percentage points less likely to favor it
than white voters.

``Vote-by-mail is a little less popular as an option among Latino and
African-Americans than whites and Asian-Americans,'' Dr. Kousser said.
``The N.A.A.C.P. has said they're concerned about a shift to only
vote-by-mail.''

As for the party's younger voters, they tend to be more transient ---
less likely to have a current address on file with elections
authorities.

``There is justified concern that Democratic-leaning voters may be
disadvantaged through vote-by-mail systems,'' said Brian Dunn, an Obama
campaign alumnus who is a founder of Deliver My Vote, which encourages
voters to sign up to receive mail ballots at home in states that allow
it. ``People like caregivers, gig-sector employees or those working
multiple jobs may not update their address as they move, causing them to
lose their ability to vote safely and easily.''

This concern emerged recently during deliberations by the Maryland Board
of Elections over whether to conduct the state's June 2 primary entirely
by mail.

The board decided to keep a limited number of polling places open after
Democratic legislative leaders, in a letter to Gov. Larry Hogan, a
Republican, objected to an all-mail format, raising concerns about its
potential impact on black voters.

``Most vote-by-mail states are overwhelmingly white,'' the letter said,
then cited a 2011 study sponsored by the Pew Charitable Trusts that
found mandatory voting by mail reduced the chances that a person would
vote, particularly among urban voters, who were 50 percent less likely
to vote in an all-mail election.

\hypertarget{why-are-some-republicans-eager-to-adopt-vote-by-mail}{%
\subsection{Why are some Republicans eager to adopt
vote-by-mail?}\label{why-are-some-republicans-eager-to-adopt-vote-by-mail}}

Despite Mr. Trump's opposition, there is ample Republican support for
transitioning to mail elections.

In Ohio, the state's top Republican officials, Gov. Mike DeWine and
Frank LaRose, the secretary of state,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gYliBlyROxo\&feature=youtu.be}{recorded
a video this week promoting the state's first all-mail elections} later
this month.

``I reject this notion that I think comes from days gone by, when people
say it's not good for Republicans when there's high turnout,'' Mr.
LaRose said in an interview on Thursday. ``The highest turnout
presidential election we ever had was 2016. The highest turnout
gubernatorial election we ever had was 2018.''

Kim Wyman, the Republican secretary of state in Washington, pushed for
mail elections as a local official. She said she didn't believe that
voting by mail helped either party in her state.

``There would be those who say, `You haven't elected a Republican
governor since 1980 in Washington,' and our state certainly leans blue
in terms of outcome,'' Ms. Wyman said in an interview. ``But I think if
you do a deeper drive, we're a purple state. I think a lot of those
elections were won and lost with very small margins.''

``When you look at states that are vote by mail, you have a mix of blue
and red and states,'' she said. ``Utah is pretty red.''

Michael Meyers, a Republican whose data firm, TargetPoint Consulting,
has guided G.O.P. presidential campaigns since 2004, said Republican
data and voter contact programs were superior to what Democrats had,
meaning all-mail elections could be advantageous for conservatives.

``Every time we do something that scares Republicans, that makes voting
easier to do, we tend to freak out about it and then figure out a way to
level the playing field,'' Mr. Meyers said. ``In some respect I think
there is some advantage to it. While I am concerned about voter fraud
and security, on straight mechanics, it doesn't scare me that much.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 7, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall presidential campaign
    centered on Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{two
    pivotal states for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
