Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Tech C.E.O.'s Former
Assistant Charged With His Grisly Murder

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OAXcJi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tech-ceos-former-assistant-charged-with-his-grisly-murder}{%
\section{Tech C.E.O.'s Former Assistant Charged With His Grisly
Murder}\label{tech-ceos-former-assistant-charged-with-his-grisly-murder}}

The police said the former employee, who had been fired for stealing
\$90,000, stabbed and dismembered Fahim Saleh in his Manhattan
apartment.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/nyregion/00nycmurder-hfo/00nycmurder-hfo-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William K.
Rashbaum}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-feuer}{Alan Feuer} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-gold}{Michael Gold}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 17, 2020Updated July 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When a young tech entrepreneur with a history of doing business in
Nigeria and Bangladesh was found dismembered this week in his
multimillion dollar Manhattan condominium, the case at first seemed to
have all the trappings of an international thriller.

Someone in a black suit, a mask and latex gloves had followed the
victim, Fahim Saleh, into his apartment while carrying a duffel bag, a
security video showed. The person then subdued Mr. Saleh with a Taser,
stabbed him to death and returned the next day to dismember him with an
electric saw, the police said. One law enforcement official said it
``looked like a professional job.''

But instead of leading detectives toward Mr. Saleh's overseas business
projects, the evidence quickly pointed to someone close to home, the
police said: his onetime personal assistant.

On Friday, the former assistant, Tyrese Devon Haspil, 21, was arrested
and charged with murdering Mr. Saleh, 33. Some investigators theorized
that the suspect had tried to make the killing look like a professional
assassination to divert attention from himself.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/nyregion/17nycmurderNEW/merlin_174686763_a37bfc56-6d6a-49e6-88d7-cf4ac19c3294-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``Mr. Haspil was Mr. Saleh's executive assistant and handled his
finances and personal matters,'' **** the chief of detectives, Rodney K.
Harrison, said at a brief news conference on Friday afternoon. ``It is
also believed that he **** owed the victim a significant amount of
money.''

According to three officials briefed on the matter, Mr. Saleh had
discovered that Mr. Haspil had stolen roughly \$90,000 from him. Though
Mr. Saleh, who friends said was a generous man, fired Mr. Haspil, he did
not report the theft, the officials said. He even offered to arrange a
way for his former employee to work off his debt in what amounted to a
payment plan.

Mr. Haspil, a Long Island native who had recently attended Hofstra
University, was arrested at 8:45 a.m. on Friday in the lobby of a
building at 172 Crosby Street in SoHo, where he had been staying in an
apartment with a female friend, one official said. New York detectives
and federal agents from a U.S. Marshals Service regional fugitive task
force took him into custody.

``He tried to run,'' said the building's superintendent, who declined to
give his name, explaining that he was not authorized to speak on behalf
of the owner. The superintendent added that Mr. Haspil had arrived at
the Crosby Street apartment at some point on Wednesday and that he was
planning to leave on Monday.

Mr. Haspil, who has no previous criminal record, was formally charged
with second-degree murder on Saturday morning in criminal court in
Manhattan. Judge Jonathan Svetkey ordered him held without bail.

Mr. Haspil's lawyers, Sam Roberts and Neville Mitchell, said their
client had pleaded not guilty. They were in the early stages of
gathering facts in a complex case, they said in a statement.

``We urge the public to keep an open mind,'' the lawyers said. ``There
is much more to this narrative than the accusations, an arrest by the
police and a charge by the district attorney.''

Mr. Saleh was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/nyregion/fahim-saleh-lower-east-side-murder.html?module=inline}{discovered
dead on Tuesday}, when his cousin went to check on him at his \$2.25
million condo in a luxury building on East Houston Street on the Lower
East Side. The cousin, officials said, was worried after not hearing
from him for about a day.

When the cousin got to the apartment, the police said, she discovered a
horrifying scene: Mr. Saleh's head and limbs had been removed, and parts
of his body had been placed in plastic bags designed for construction
debris. An electric saw was plugged in nearby. (The police had
originally said Mr. Saleh's sister had made the discovery.)

Investigators have concluded that Mr. Saleh had been killed the day
before, according to a fourth official with knowledge of the inquiry.

A video shows the man the police believe to be Mr. Haspil following Mr.
Saleh into his building and then into an elevator, where they appear to
engage in small talk, the officials said.

The suspect was dressed in a black three-piece suit and wore a black
mask and latex gloves, the officials said. He was carrying a duffel bag.

As the two men left the elevator, which opened directly into Mr. Saleh's
seventh-floor unit, the assailant fired a Taser into Mr. Saleh's back,
immobilizing him, at about 1:44 p.m. on Monday, according to a criminal
complaint. He then stabbed Mr. Saleh to death, wounding him multiple
times in his neck and torso.

The next morning, Mr. Haspil used a credit card to hire a car to go to a
Home Depot, on West 23rd Street in Manhattan, and to buy an electric saw
and cleaning supplies, the fourth official said. The criminal complaint
said he was captured on video by a store camera buying the goods at 9:30
a.m.

Later that day, dressed in a gray hooded sweatshirt, the assailant
returned to Mr. Saleh's apartment to dismember the body and clean up the
crime scene.

Security video from inside Mr. Saleh's elevator showed that the suspect
used a portable vacuum cleaner, perhaps in an effort to remove residue
that was left behind when the Taser was fired, the officials said.

But while the assailant was cutting up the body, Mr. Saleh's cousin
buzzed the apartment from the building's lobby. Before she got upstairs,
the attacker fled through a back door and down a stairwell, officials
said.

Only four years ago, Mr. Haspil graduated from Central High School in
Valley Stream, N.Y., where he won an award for website design, according
to local news articles. In 2017, he entered Hofstra as a member of its
class of 2021.

Detectives believe that he began working for Mr. Saleh when he was 16,
and eventually started managing some of his finances as well as taking
care of personal matters, like caring for his dog. One official said Mr.
Saleh paid him well enough that he was able to settle the debts of
several members of his family.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/nyregion/17nycmurder2/merlin_174684039_ff8c8003-b39b-4085-98c2-9ee11433abaa-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Haspil had recently lived on Woodruff Avenue in Brooklyn, where Kate
Hain, one of his neighbors, said that nothing about him suggested he was
capable of homicide.

``He and his roommate seemed to keep to themselves and not cause any
issues in the building,'' Ms. Hain said. She added that Mr. Haspil had
done ``nothing unusual'' in all the time he lived there.

Mr. Saleh was born in Saudi Arabia to Bangladeshi parents who eventually
settled near Poughkeepsie, N.Y., a small city on the Hudson River. In a
statement this week, his family called his death an ``unfathomable''
shock.

After graduating from Bentley University in Waltham, Mass., in 2009, he
built an app called PrankDial that allowed users to send prerecorded
prank calls. Mr. Saleh has said he eventually built PrankDial into a
\$10 million business.

Mr. Saleh went on to found Pathao, a motorcycle ride-sharing start-up in
Bangladesh. He left that company in 2018 to begin a similar venture in
Nigeria, an app known as Gokada. He was also the founding partner in a
Manhattan-based venture capital fund, Adventure Capital, that invested
in similar transit start-ups in Colombia and Bangladesh.

Shortly after 5 p.m. on Friday, Mr. Haspil was led out of the Seventh
Precinct station house on the Lower East Side in handcuffs and a white
jumpsuit. He declined to answer questions fired at him by reporters.

Initially, a law enforcement official had described Mr. Saleh's death as
a ``hit,'' but some investigators now believe that Mr. Haspil may have
tried to make the killing look like a professional assassination in an
effort to trick detectives into thinking it was linked to Mr. Saleh's
business deals.

Still, one investigator said that Mr. Haspil made ``several rookie
mistakes'' --- including buying a Taser online with his own credit card
and signing for the package when it arrived in June.

The superintendent at the Crosby Street apartment said the police told
him that Mr. Haspil had also used one of Mr. Saleh's credit cards to buy
balloons to celebrate the birthday of the woman he was staying with. On
Friday afternoon, the superintendent said, the balloons were still in
the apartment.

``The credit card was used to buy balloons, and this and that, because
he was with a girl for her birthday,'' the superintendent said. ``How
stupid can you be?''

Reporting was contributed by Nicole Hong, Sean Piccoli, Juliana Kim and
Daniel E. Slotnik. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
