Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`Horseface,' `Lowlife,'
`Fat, Ugly': How the President Demeans Women

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QWUnSd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{horseface-lowlife-fat-ugly-how-the-president-demeans-women}{%
\section{`Horseface,' `Lowlife,' `Fat, Ugly': How the President Demeans
Women}\label{horseface-lowlife-fat-ugly-how-the-president-demeans-women}}

President Trump has a history of attacking women by mocking their bodily
functions, demeaning their looks or comparing them to animals.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/us/politics/17dc-trump-1-print/merlin_145260501_d6c7055a-e339-4983-8914-0d4a6463beda-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eileen-sullivan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-eileen-sullivan/author-eileen-sullivan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eileen-sullivan}{Eileen
Sullivan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 16, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump referred to the pornographic film actress
Stephanie Clifford as ``Horseface'' in
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1052213711295930368}{a
tweet on Tuesday}, adding her to a long list of women he has attacked by
demeaning their looks, mocking their bodily functions or comparing them
to animals.

Mr. Trump's verbal assault came as he gloated about a federal judge's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/15/admin/stormy-daniels-lawsuit-dismissed-trump.html}{decision
to dismiss a defamation suit} filed by Ms. Clifford, who is known
professionally as Stormy Daniels. Ms. Clifford's lawyer responded by
calling the president ``a disgusting misogynist.'' Ms. Clifford --- who
was paid \$130,000 through Mr. Trump's former lawyer to buy her silence
about sex she said she had with Mr. Trump ---
\href{https://twitter.com/StormyDaniels/status/1052224021855637505}{replied
on Twitter} by using the nickname ``Tiny'' for the president.

Mr. Trump's tweet landed in the final days of a congressional election
cycle in which Republican candidates are already struggling to woo
female voters. The president's language is unlikely to be helpful to
them.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/us/politics/17dc-trump1-sub/merlin_136947969_39d3df88-fc97-413a-a93d-233ad3ceee07-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Although the president's comment was striking about Ms. Clifford, who
has graphically described Mr. Trump's genitals in a recent memoir, it
was hardly unique.

Mr. Trump has accused women of having ``fat, ugly'' faces and of
repelling voters because of their looks. He called one woman a ``crazed,
crying lowlife'' and said another was a ``dog'' who had the ``face of a
pig.'' He said Hillary Clinton's bathroom break during a 2015
presidential debate was ``too disgusting'' to talk about. He has
repeatedly mocked women for being overweight.

``This rhetoric is the kind of thing that has turned off
college-educated Republican women who voted for Trump in 2016, but have
fallen away,'' said Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for
American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. Calling the
president's comment ``adolescent,'' Ms. Walsh said that ``you cannot
continue to be a party in power if the voters that you are appealing to
are white men over the age of 60.''

Mr. Trump's turn toward juvenile mockery illustrates why even those
Republicans who were buoyed by the bounce they received in the aftermath
of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh's nomination were still cautious in their
midterm forecasts: One can never guess when this president will veer off
message, as he did on Tuesday with Ms. Clifford.

``To say this is unbecoming of any man, let alone the POTUS, is a vast
understatement,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RyanCostello/status/1052224404124561408}{tweeted
Representative Ryan A. Costello}, a Pennsylvania Republican who is
retiring from Congress, referring to the president. ``And to say this
enables teenage boys to feel they have a license to refer to girls w
such names is obvious. It's all very embarrassing.''

Some of Mr. Trump's comments came before he was elected. Voters learned
just weeks before Election Day that he had bragged that he could ``grab
'em by the pussy.'' He has continued to make crude comments about
women's bodies since taking office, repeatedly testing the limits of the
public's acceptance of a president's locker-room vocabulary.

A White House spokeswoman declined to comment for this article.

Here are some of the president's most remarkable attacks on women over
the years:

\hypertarget{womens-faces}{%
\subsection{Women's faces}\label{womens-faces}}

Image

``Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?'' Mr. Trump said
of Carly Fiorina, one of his rivals for the 2016 Republican presidential
nomination.Credit...Gabriella Demczuk for The New York Times

When he attacks women, as he did with Ms. Clifford in his tweet on
Tuesday, Mr. Trump often goes after their faces.

As he battled his rivals for the 2016 Republican presidential
nomination, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/politics/first-draft/2015/09/10/donald-trumps-uncomplimentary-comments-about-carly-fiorina/}{made
fun of Carly Fiorina's face} on television, saying that people wouldn't
vote for the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard because of her
looks.

``Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?'' Mr. Trump said
during
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/politics/politics-news/trump-seriously-on-the-trail-with-the-gops-tough-guy-41447/}{an
interview with Rolling Stone magazine}. ``I mean, she's a woman, and I'm
not supposed to say bad things, but really, folks, come on. Are we
serious?''

Mr. Trump later denied that he was talking about Ms. Fiorina's
appearance and told CNN that he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/politics/first-draft/2015/09/10/donald-trump-denies-attacking-carly-fiorinas-looks/?ref=first-draft}{referring
to her ``persona.''} But similar remarks about other women have been a
regular part of his repertoire.

During his long-running feud with the television star Rosie O'Donnell,
Mr. Trump described her as having ``a fat, ugly face.'' In 2016, he
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/712850174838771712}{retweeted
an unflattering photo of Heidi Cruz}, the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, the
Texas Republican who was one of his primary campaign rivals. The caption
on the picture: ``Images are worth a thousand words.''

In a 1992 issue of New York magazine,
\href{https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=BeUCAAAAMBAJ\&pg=PA43\&lpg=PA43\&dq=if+you+like+a+woman+with+a+bad+complexion+who+is+built+like+a+linebacker\&source=bl\&ots=tX79s7pj6e\&sig=-MyardUohO0r2F5owgwjaWfoXnU\&hl=en\&sa=X\&ved=0ahUKEwi_4KDQgfvPAhVJBsAKHZ5gAagQ6AEIHjAB\#v=onepage\&q=if\%20you\%20like\%20a\%20woman\%20with\%20a\%20bad\%20complexion\%20who\%20is\%20built\%20like\%20a\%20linebacker\&f=false}{Mr.
Trump was quoted as saying} that Katarina Witt, a German Olympic figure
skater, would be considered attractive only ``if you like a woman with a
bad complexion who is built like a linebacker.''

\hypertarget{women-as-animals}{%
\subsection{Women as animals}\label{women-as-animals}}

Image

Mr. Trump referred to Omarosa Manigault Newman, a former aide, as ``that
dog'' and a ``crazed, crying lowlife.'' Credit...Pablo Martinez
Monsivais/Associated Press

The president often expresses his ire by comparing women to animals, an
effort to dehumanize his opponents that he also uses against men.

After his former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman published her tell-all
book, ``Unhinged,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/14/us/politics/trump-omarosa-dog.html}{responded
by calling her ``that dog''} and a ``crazed, crying lowlife.''

It was not unlike language Mr. Trump used in the early 1990s, when he
sent Gail Collins, then a columnist for New York Newsday, a copy of a
column she had written. Ms. Collins, now an opinion columnist for The
New York Times,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/15/opinion/trump-omarosa-dogs-insults.html}{recalled
that he scrawled several insults} on the column, branding her ``a dog
and a liar'' and writing that she had ``the face of a pig.''

\hypertarget{female-bodily-functions}{%
\subsection{Female bodily functions}\label{female-bodily-functions}}

Image

After a debate moderated by Megyn Kelly in 2015, Mr. Trump said that
``you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out
of her wherever.''Credit...Mike Segar/Reuters

At a campaign rally in December 2015, Mr. Trump called attention to Mrs.
Clinton's bathroom break during an earlier Democratic presidential
debate, eliciting cheers from his supporters.

``I know where she went --- it's disgusting. I don't want to talk about
it,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/12/24/us/politics/hillary-clinton-donald-trump-women-isis.html}{Mr.
Trump said}. ``No, it's too disgusting. Don't say it, it's disgusting.''

Mr. Trump also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/08/09/us/politics/donald-trump-disinvited-from-conservative-event-over-remark-on-megyn-kelly.html?module=inline}{suggested
in August 2015} that Megyn Kelly, a Fox News journalist at the time, was
tough on him when she was moderating a Republican debate because she was
menstruating. The night after the debate, Mr. Trump said, ``You could
see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her
wherever.''

And after becoming president and moving into the White House, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/29/business/media/trump-mika-brzezinski-facelift.html}{mocked
MSNBC's Mika Brzezinski} in 2017, saying that she had a ``low I.Q.'' and
that she had been ``bleeding badly from a face-lift'' during a social
gathering at his resort in Florida around New Year's Eve.

On Monday, Mr. Trump invited a disturbing image when he told reporters
that he would keep his pledge to donate \$1 million to a charity only if
he could ``personally'' test
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/15/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-dna-ancestry.html}{Senator
Elizabeth Warren's DNA}. ``That will not be something that I enjoy
doing,'' he added.

\hypertarget{weight-and-shape-of-female-bodies}{%
\subsection{Weight and shape of female
bodies}\label{weight-and-shape-of-female-bodies}}

Image

Mr. Trump said that Arianna Huffington, the founder of HuffPost, was
``unattractive (both inside and out).''Credit...Seth Wenig/Associated
Press

Perhaps most common is Mr. Trump's fixation on the overall appearance of
women. He often uses their looks as a way of diminishing their
abilities, their intelligence or their effectiveness --- sometimes all
three. Attacking a woman's looks has become his standard response to
female critics and rivals.

After
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/15/us/politics/donald-trump-campaign.html}{Jessica
Leeds} said in 2016 that Mr. Trump groped her on an airplane in the
1980s, he said ``believe me, she would not be my first choice.'' Of
Natasha Stoynoff, a former People magazine writer who said Mr. Trump
accosted her during an interview, Mr. Trump denied it and said, ``Check
out her Facebook page, you'll understand.''

In March 2012, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/201044011954348032}{attacked
Cher}, the singer and actress, over her criticism of Republican
candidates running for office, saying on Twitter that she should ``stop
with the bad plastic surgery and nasty statements.''

That same year, Mr. Trump lashed out against Arianna Huffington, the
founder of HuffPost, saying she was ``unattractive both inside and
out.'' In 2014, he reiterated that she was
``\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/458031670164459521?lang=en}{ugly
both inside and out}!'' In 2015, he
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/585262729511972864}{again
tweeted} about ``the extremely unattractive (both inside and out)
Arianna Huffington.''

Mr. Trump derided Heidi Klum, the German supermodel and entrepreneur, in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/08/16/opinion/sunday/introducing-donald-trump-diplomat.html?_r=0}{a
2015 interview with The Times}, saying: ``Heidi Klum. Sadly, she's no
longer a 10.'' She responded by tweeting a photo of herself wearing a
``10'' label on her T-shirt.

In 2012, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/262584296081068033}{dismissed
the actress Bette Midler} as ``an extremely unattractive woman,'' adding
that ``I refuse to say that because I always insist on being politically
correct.'' And as he watched the 2014 Oscars, Mr. Trump attacked the
actress Kim Novak,
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/440313189062823937?lang=en}{writing
on Twitter}: ``The last song was terrible! Kim should sue her plastic
surgeon!'' He later walked the criticism back by saying that she was
``\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/457208802027507712?lang=en}{a
wonderful actress}.''

Scott Reed, a veteran Republican strategist who oversees the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce's political affairs, pleaded with the president on
Tuesday not to get distracted by lashing out at women the way he has in
the past.

``We need a strong dose of message discipline out of the White House for
the next 20 days,'' Mr. Reed said. ``If not, this midterm election
becomes a crapshoot.''

\emph{Emily Cochrane and Jonathan Martin contributed reporting.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
