<div id="suggestions" class="suggestions messenger nocontent robots-nocontent" style="display:none;">

<div class="message-bed">

<div class="message-container last-message-container">

<div class="message">

<span class="message-content"> **<span class="message-title">NYTimes.com
no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please upgrade your
browser.</span> [LEARN MORE
»](http://www.nytimes.com/content/help/site/ie9-support.html)
</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="shell" class="shell">

<div class="container">

<div class="quick-navigation button-group">

**<span class="button-text">Sections</span>

**<span class="button-text">Home</span>

**<span class="button-text">Search</span>

</div>

<div class="branding">

## [<span class="visually-hidden">The New York Times</span>](http://www.nytimes.com/)

</div>

<div class="story-meta">

###### <span class="kicker-label"> [Real Estate](https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>Two People in One Small Studio? This Couple Figured They Could Manage

</div>

<div class="user-tools">

<div id="sharetools-masthead" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-masthead" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="facebook,twitter,email,show-all,save" data-url="https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/30/realestate/30hunt-sato.html" data-title="Two People in One Small Studio? This Couple Figured They Could Manage" data-author="By Joyce Cohen" data-media="https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="Two newlyweds leave their tiny rental for something affordable in Hell’s Kitchen — maybe even a one-bedroom. Which of these options would you choose?" data-publish-date="July 30, 2020">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

<div class="user-tools-button-group button-group">

Log In

**<span class="button-text">0</span>

**<span class="button-text">Settings</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="search-flyout-panel flyout-panel">

**<span class="visually-hidden">Close search</span>

## Site Search Navigation

<div class="control">

<div class="label-container visually-hidden">

Search NYTimes.com

</div>

<div class="field-container">

**<span id="clear-search-input" class="visually-hidden">Clear this text
input</span>

<div class="auto-suggest" style="display: none;">

</div>

Go

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="notification-modals" class="notification-modals">

</div>

<span class="story-short-url"><https://nyti.ms/31fsEmD></span>

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

1.  
    
    <div class="loader loader-t-logo-32x32-ecedeb-ffffff">
    
    <span class="visually-hidden">Loading...</span>
    
    </div>

<div class="ribbon-navigation-container">

<span class="visually-hidden">See next articles</span>

<div class="arrow arrow-right">

<div class="arrow-conceal">

</div>

</div>

<span class="visually-hidden">See previous
articles</span>

<div class="arrow arrow-left">

<div class="arrow-conceal">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Navigation

## Site Mobile Navigation

<div id="navigation-edge" class="navigation-edge">

</div>

<div id="page" class="page">

<div id="TopAd" class="ad top-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

<div id="main" class="main" data-role="main">

<div class="story-meta">

<div class="kicker-container">

## <span class="kicker-label"> [Real Estate](https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate) </span> <span class="pipe">|</span>The Hunt

<div id="sharetools-interactive" class="sharetools theme-classic sharetools-interactive" data-aria-label="tools" data-role="group" data-shares="show-all|Share" data-url="https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/30/realestate/30hunt-sato.html" data-title="Two People in One Small Studio? This Couple Figured They Could Manage" data-author="By Joyce Cohen" data-media="https://static01.nyt.com/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png" data-description="Two newlyweds leave their tiny rental for something affordable in Hell’s Kitchen — maybe even a one-bedroom. Which of these options would you choose?" data-publish-date="July 30, 2020">

<div class="ad sharetools-inline-article-ad hidden nocontent robots-nocontent">

</div>

</div>

</div>

# Two People in One Small Studio? This Couple Figured They Could Manage

<div class="story-meta-footer interactive-meta-footer">

<div class="interactive-byline">

<span class="byline" itemprop="author creator" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Person">
By
<span class="byline-author" data-byline-name="JOYCE COHEN" itemprop="name">JOYCE
COHEN</span> </span> JULY 30, 2020

</div>

<span class="summary-text">Two newlyweds leave their tiny rental for
something affordable in Hell’s Kitchen — maybe even a one-bedroom. Which
of these options would you choose?</span> [Related
Article](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/23/realestate/23hunt-hirt.html)

</div>

</div>

<div id="30hunt-sato" class="interactive-graphic">

<div id="adventure-project-container">

<div id="adventure-target">

<div>

<span></span>

<div class="quiz is-not-complete">

![<span class="caption-text">Alex Sato, left, and Ilya Lachugin in their
new home. The couple, previously renters, were hoping to find a studio
in a co-op building for around $300,000. And they wanted to stay in
Hell’s Kitchen, preferring a smaller place there to a bigger place
elsewhere in the city.</span> <span class="credit">Alex Sato and Ilya
Lachugin</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-Sato-06/30Hunt-Sato-06-master315.jpg)

<div class="text-block">

About three years ago, Ilya Lachugin joined Alex Sato in his tiny Hell’s
Kitchen apartment. The West 50s studio was on the top floor of a prewar
elevator building, with a rent of about $2,000 a month for a little more
than 200 square feet. The kitchen was in an alcove.

“We had a stove, sink and refrigerator — that’s all,” Mr. Lachugin said.
“I cook, Alex cleans.”

Mr. Lachugin, 33, who is originally from Moscow, yearned to buy a home.
In a rental, he said, “you never can relax. In my mind, you always have
to worry about the lease, and it is not a place for yourself.”

Mr. Sato, 46, who is from São Paulo, Brazil, felt no particular urgency
to buy, although it did seem financially prudent. “I came to New York
for work and ended up staying,” he said. “In the back of my head, I
always thought it was going to be a temporary situation, that I would go
back to Brazil. With Ilya, now I have a family.” The two were married
last year.

*\[Did you recently buy or rent a home in the New York metro area? We
want to hear from you. Email: <thehunt@nytimes.com>\]*

Mr. Lachugin constantly browsed online listings, and last winter the
couple decided to visit some open houses. They were hoping to find a
studio in a co-op building for around $300,000, although they could pay
more if necessary.

And they wanted to stay in Hell’s Kitchen, preferring a smaller place
there to a bigger place elsewhere in the city.

When he first moved to the neighborhood, Mr. Lachugin felt it was
crowded with people and traffic, but it had grown on him. The couple
often walked their French bulldog, Mamma, in Central Park. And both
enjoyed walking to their offices in Midtown, where Mr. Lachugin works as
a financial analyst and Mr. Sato works at a technology company.

One essential was a nice kitchen — “or at least the potential to make it
nice,” Mr. Lachugin said. They also wanted a sublet policy that would
let them rent the home if they wished.

Among their options:

</div>

<div class="container">

<div class="text-block building-label">

No. 1

</div>

<div class="text-block display-header">

One-Bedroom in Need of Renovation

</div>

![<span class="credit">Joyce Cohen for The New York
Times</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-Sato-09/30Hunt-Sato-09-master315.jpg)

<div class="text-block">

This corner one-bedroom in a 1903 Beaux-Arts doorman building,
originally a hotel, was about 700 square feet and faced the back,
receiving northern and western light. It was an estate sale, and a full
renovation would be required. The price was $498,000, with monthly
maintenance of around $1,100.

</div>

![<span class="caption-text">One-Bedroom in Need of Renovation</span>
<span class="credit">Courtesy of Jimmy Brett/Bond New
York</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-SatoINT1/30Hunt-SatoINT1-master315-v3.jpg)

</div>

<div class="container">

<div class="text-block building-label">

No. 2

</div>

<div class="text-block display-header">

Studio in Walk-up Building

</div>

![<span class="credit">Joyce Cohen for The New York
Times</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-Sato-08/30Hunt-Sato-08-master315.jpg)

<div class="text-block">

This studio, with about 300 square feet, was on the third floor of a
five-story walk-up, facing the back. It had exposed brick, beamed
ceilings, a decorative fireplace and a renovated bathroom. The price was
$299,000, with maintenance of around $800.

</div>

![<span class="caption-text">Studio in Walk-up Building</span>
<span class="credit">Courtesy Douglas
Elliman</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-SatoINT2/30Hunt-SatoINT2-master315.jpg)

</div>

<div class="container">

<div class="text-block building-label">

No. 3

</div>

<div class="text-block display-header">

Studio in Elevator Building

</div>

![<span class="credit">Joyce Cohen for The New York
Times</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-Sato-07/30Hunt-Sato-07-master315.jpg)

<div class="text-block">

This rectangular studio, with around 350 square feet, was in a nicely
maintained 1930 elevator building and faced west, with a glimpse of sky.
It had a small kitchen and a walk-in closet. The price was $310,000,
with maintenance of just under $900.

</div>

![<span class="caption-text">Studio in Elevator Building</span>
<span class="credit">NYC Property Expo/Mandy
Collesano</span>](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/realestate/30Hunt-SatoINT3/30Hunt-SatoINT3-master315-v3.jpg)

</div>

<div class="text-block">

*Find out what happened next by answering these two questions:*

</div>

<div class="multiple-choice-question question unanswered">

<div class="text-block">

Which Would You Choose?

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

One-Bedroom in Need of Renovation

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

Studio in Walk-up Building

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

Studio in Elevator
Building

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

</div>

<div class="multiple-choice-question question unanswered has-correct-answers">

<div class="text-block">

Which Did They Choose?

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

One-Bedroom in Need of Renovation

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

Studio in Walk-up Building

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

<div class="answer poll-answer question-unanswered not-selected">

<div class="poll-answer-wrapper">

<span class="poll-answer-percentage">0%</span>

<div class="poll-answer-content">

<div class="text-block">

Studio in Elevator
Building

</div>

</div>

</div>

<span class="poll-answer-graph" style="width:0%"></span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="related-coverage" class="section related-coverage nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="nocontent robots-nocontent">

## [The Hunt](https://www.nytimes.com/column/the-hunt)

  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/23/realestate/23hunt-hirt.html)
    
    <div class="wide-thumb">
    
    ![A Two-Bedroom Rental in Long Island City for $3,000? One New York
    Couple Test Their
    Budget.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/realestate/23hunt-hirt1/23hunt-hirt1-mediumThreeByTwo225-v2.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    ## A Two-Bedroom Rental in Long Island City for $3,000? One New York Couple Test Their Budget.
    
    July 24,
    2020

  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/09/realestate/09hunt-chang.html)
    
    <div class="wide-thumb">
    
    ![On a $3,000 Monthly Budget, They Wanted a Brooklyn Duplex. Which
    Did They
    Pick?](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/12/realestate/09hunt-Chang/09hunt-Chang-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    ## On a $3,000 Monthly Budget, They Wanted a Brooklyn Duplex. Which Did They Pick?
    
    July 10,
    2020

  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/02/realestate/02hunt-rubenfeld.html)
    
    <div class="wide-thumb">
    
    ![He Wanted Some Outdoor Space in a New Manhattan Condo. Which of
    These Homes Would You
    Choose?](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/05/realestate/02HUNT-RUBENFELD4/merlin_174040140_c3bdf649-4ecb-452b-8829-18ce17b467a0-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    ## He Wanted Some Outdoor Space in a New Manhattan Condo. Which of These Homes Would You Choose?
    
    July 9,
    2020

  - [](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/16/realestate/16hunt-hagstrom.html)
    
    <div class="wide-thumb">
    
    ![He Wanted a Manhattan Bachelor Pad for Under $600,000. Which of
    These Would You
    Choose?](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/19/realestate/16Hunt-hagstrom3/16Hunt-hagstrom3-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    ## He Wanted a Manhattan Bachelor Pad for Under $600,000. Which of These Would You Choose?
    
    July 18, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div id="BottomAd" class="ad bottom-ad nocontent robots-nocontent">

<div class="accessibility-ad-header">

Advertisement

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [©
    <span itemprop="copyrightYear">2020</span><span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes.com"><span itemprop="name">
    The New York Times
    Company</span></span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  - [Home](https://www.nytimes.com)
  - [Search](https://www.nytimes.com/search/)
  - Accessibility concerns? Email us at <accessibility@nytimes.com>. We
    would love to hear from you.
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)

## Site Information Navigation

  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Site
    Feedback](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

<div id="Inv1" class="ad inv1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv2" class="ad inv2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Inv3" class="ad inv3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab1" class="ad ab1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab2" class="ad ab2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ab3" class="ad ab3-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop1" class="ad prop1-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="prop2" class="ad prop2-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="Anchor" class="ad anchor-ad hidden">

</div>

<div id="ADX_CLIENTSIDE" class="ad adx-clientside-ad hidden">

</div>
