Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kamala Harris's Secret
Weapon: The Sisterhood of Alpha Kappa Alpha

\url{https://nyti.ms/2KQX4Wp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kamala-harriss-secret-weapon-the-sisterhood-of-alpha-kappa-alpha}{%
\section{Kamala Harris's Secret Weapon: The Sisterhood of Alpha Kappa
Alpha}\label{kamala-harriss-secret-weapon-the-sisterhood-of-alpha-kappa-alpha}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/30/us/politics/00AlphaKappaAlpha1/merlin_157238715_8ad93226-07da-4bd6-a931-69e2fdb67cb2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NASHVILLE --- It had been on the calendar for months, the annual
leadership conference of the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority. But the talk at
the gathering of 8,000 women last weekend was about far more than the
usual chapter building, catching up and breaking out outfits in the
organization's signature pink and green: Kamala Harris, who joined the
sorority as a college student, had just resurrected the ghost of
segregation and busing against former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
in a Democratic presidential debate.

The moment brought a sense of pride and some apprehension about what Ms.
Harris's campaign would hold.

Younger members said Ms. Harris represented a hope for the future. ``She
just reminds me to be fearless in the pursuit of my goals,'' said
Shannon Burge, 31, a Denver sales manager.

Older members said Ms. Harris's challenge to Mr. Biden last week ---
over his opposition to busing during the 1970s --- was evidence that
years of sacrifice had not been in vain. ``I went to segregated schools.
I experienced integration. It wasn't easy,'' said Miriam Joyner-Smith,
59, who works in the insurance industry in Tampa. ``We're just excited
and proud because she represents us well.''

Ms. Harris didn't attend the conference, which began the night of the
debate, but provided a video to be shown at the event that bore a
striking resemblance to a campaign call to action, while never actually
mentioning her presidential ambitions.

``We have a fight ahead of us, and we cannot afford to sit it out,'' Ms.
Harris said in the video, referring to gun violence, the low pay and
high maternal mortality rate among black women, and new laws that stymie
access to the ballot box.

``Simply put, the women of Alpha Kappa Alpha have forged paths and led
in just about every space imaginable,'' she said in the video. Just not,
yet, in the space Ms. Harris is imagining: the White House. It's
possible A.K.A. membership will be an advantage there.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/30/us/politics/00AlphaKappaAlpha2/merlin_156230022_60528842-436d-47a4-b855-fe388e97fa51-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The group's sheer numbers, organization and multimillion-dollar budget
suggest a potential secret weapon in the campaign arsenal of Ms. Harris,
who joined the sorority while an undergraduate at Howard University. She
has called A.K.A. a major influence in her life.

In June, Ms. Harris
\href{https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris/status/1141375083807748096}{tweeted}:
``Being a graduate of \href{https://twitter.com/HowardU}{@HowardU} and a
proud member of
\href{https://twitter.com/akasorority1908}{@akasorority1908} changed my
life'' as she
\href{https://www.thestate.com/news/politics-government/politics-columns-blogs/the-buzz/article231726103.html}{announced}
an effort to engage and mobilize students and alumni from historically
black colleges and universities, as well as members of historically
black Greek organizations.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In addition to Ms. Harris, who personally addressed members at meetings
of the organization earlier this year, seven House of Representatives
members are also A.K.A. sisters.

For Denine Bratcher, 50, who was attending the conference from Germany,
Ms. Harris's emergence as a presidential contender isn't the least bit
surprising.

``We are women who are pioneers. We're making strides, making waves for
the future,'' said Ms. Bratcher, who teaches the children of U.S.
military families. ``That's what Alpha Kappa Alpha women do. We make
strides.''

If the next stride is to the White House, though, it will be without
A.K.A.'s official endorsement, according to its president, Glenda
Glover, who also serves as the president of Tennessee State University.
In an interview wedged in the middle of a busy day during the conference
here, Dr. Glover, dressed in a pink suit and accompanied by an
entourage, pointed out that, as a nonprofit, the sorority avoids
involvement in partisan politics.

With about 300,000 members, A.K.A. is capable of formidable fund-raising
outside of politics. Simply by texting and emailing members on one day
last year, the group raised more than \$1.3 million for historically
black colleges. Records show that the annual budget of the national
organization and its affiliates, including an educational endowment,
exceeds \$75 million.

Image

Younger members said Ms. Harris represented a hope for the future. ``She
just reminds me to be fearless in the pursuit of my goals,'' said
Shannon Burge, 31.Credit...William DeShazer for The New York Times

A.K.A. is also known for its work in get-out-the-vote operations.
Approximately 17,000 members live in the South Atlantic region, which
includes South Carolina, an early primary state. Ms. Harris's campaign
\href{https://blog.4president.org/2020/2019/06/kamala-harris-receives-key-endorsements-from-black-south-carolina-leaders.html}{announced}
on Friday that she had picked up the endorsement of Gloria Boozer, a
former sorority official from Spartanburg.

The focus of the weekend meeting here at the Opryland resort and
convention center was leadership, with dozens of panels offering how-to
advice. They ranged from ``Refugee Access to Advanced Education:
Securing and Saving the Brain Talent'' to ``Entrepreneurship and the
Black Dollars Spent 365 Days,'' although sessions were closed to
nonmembers.

For many members of the organization, which was founded at Howard in
1908, supporting Ms. Harris was an obvious choice.

``She's a soror,'' said April Patton, 52, a teacher from Jackson, Miss.,
who emerged from a large room where everything from pink-and-green
A.K.A. T-shirts to purses to jewelry was for sale. ``You have to be a
fan. She's a solid person.''

Others, noting a strong desire to oust President Trump, feared
nominating a black woman would be too risky, even if the idea of having
a fellow sorority member in the White House was appealing.

That concern was raised by Sharon Everett, 58, a teacher from Cleveland,
as she returned to her hotel room on Friday following an evening of
meetings.

``I don't think America is ready for a female,'' Ms. Everett said. ``I
worked for the Hillary Clinton campaign, doing the door-to-door. I was
so disappointed.''

Image

Glenda Glover, the president of Alpha Kappa Alpha, said that the group
would not endorse any candidate.Credit...William DeShazer for The New
York Times

Ms. Everett said she could envision the election of another black male
president before a woman of any race is elected.

Some younger convention-goers also expressed concern about how negative
the attacks against Ms. Harris might become --- already, they noted,
Donald Trump Jr. had shared and then deleted a tweet questioning her
identity. They worried about what else might lie ahead.

Janice Wells, an educational consultant from Chicago, was more
optimistic. She acknowledged concerns about whether voters would go for
Ms. Harris, but also said the senator brings ``hope to the
possibility.''

``I know that this is a predominantly white male world, but all the
women in political power have created a space for change,'' said Ms.
Wells, 47.

Though Dr. Glover, the group's leader, emphasized that the organization
is apolitical, the behind-the-scenes clout of A.K.A. was a factor last
year in a Broward County, Fla., school fight, according to Rosalind
Osgood, a member of both the Broward school board and A.K.A.

Sitting in the large indoor Opryland atrium during a break in the
convention, Dr. Osgood described how the group was used to mobilize
opposition to the attempted
\href{https://www.sun-sentinel.com/news/education/fl-ne-runcie-school-board-vote-20190305-story.html}{ouster}
of Robert Runcie, the Broward school district superintendent, in March
2018, a month after the Parkland school shooting.

Dr. Osgood viewed the effort to remove Mr. Runcie as politically
motivated and possibly tied to race. She thought it sought to place
blame for the horrific shootings on a black man.

``There was a massive move to remove Bob,'' she said, ``who had nothing
to do with the shooting. With our local chapters of Alpha Kappa Alpha,
we were able to work with churches to organize 700 people who showed up
to a community forum on school safety, and then organize 2,100 people to
show up to a school board meeting where the vote was taken.'' The effort
to oust Mr. Runcie was defeated.

Dr. Osgood, a minister, said she had decided to endorse Ms. Harris while
at the convention.

``I think what she represents is historic for women across
generations,'' Dr. Osgood said. ``She breaks all the traditional
boundaries and status quos.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
