Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}\textbar{}With Simona Halep Out,
U.S. Open Field Is Missing Many Top Women

\url{https://nyti.ms/324LAF3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{with-simona-halep-out-us-open-field-is-missing-many-top-women}{%
\section{With Simona Halep Out, U.S. Open Field Is Missing Many Top
Women}\label{with-simona-halep-out-us-open-field-is-missing-many-top-women}}

Serena Williams, Naomi Osaka and Sofia Kenin remain, giving the New York
event plenty of star power and interesting story lines.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/sports/17usopen-women/merlin_175782921_264d97a8-90f2-4200-838c-f3e24c2c74f6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/christopher-clarey}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/10/multimedia/author-christopher-clarey/author-christopher-clarey-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/christopher-clarey}{Christopher
Clarey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This will be the most unusual United States Open in history, with no
spectators, an all-but-empty Arthur Ashe Stadium and players following
extensive health and safety guidelines because of the coronavirus
pandemic.

The tournament will also have the weakest women's field in its history
in terms of top 10 players. The latest blow came Monday when
second-ranked Simona Halep withdrew, confirming what she had been
suggesting for more than a month.

``After weighing up all the factors involved and with the exceptional
circumstances in which we are living, I have decided that I will not
travel to New York to play the U.S. Open,''
\href{https://twitter.com/Simona_Halep/status/1295329524813639681}{she
said on social media}. ``I always said I would put my health at the
heart of my decision and therefore prefer to stay and train in Europe.''

That has become a tennis refrain this summer as leading players have
continued to withdraw despite New York's low rate of infections and
event organizers' considerable efforts to create a strictly monitored
environment for players and their teams.

``I know the U.S.T.A. and WTA have worked tirelessly to put on a safe
event,'' Halep said, referring to the United States Tennis Association
and the women's tour.

Nonetheless, six of the top eight women are now out: No. 1 Ashleigh
Barty of Australia, No. 2 Halep of Romania, No. 5. Elina Svitolina of
Ukraine, No. 6 Bianca Andreescu of Canada, No. 7 Kiki Bertens of the
Netherlands and No. 8 Belinda Bencic of Switzerland.

That leaves the tournament without three of the four reigning Grand Slam
women's singles champions: Barty won last year's French Open, Halep last
year's Wimbledon and Andreescu last year's U.S. Open. Fourth-ranked
Sofia Kenin, an American who was the surprise winner of this year's
Australian Open, is the only reigning Grand Slam singles champion in the
field.

But the women's tournament is hardly without major star power or major
story lines. Serena Williams, 38, is still aiming for a record-tying
24th major singles title at a tournament where she has experienced major
swings through the decades.

Ranked ninth, she will now be among the top four seeds. Karolina
Pliskova of the Czech Republic will be seeded at No. 1, Kenin at No. 2,
Williams at No. 3 and Naomi Osaka of Japan (but based in the United
States) at No. 4.

``I think the biggest hit to the tournament would be Serena not
playing,'' said Tracy Austin, a two-time U.S. Open women's champion who
is now a Tennis Channel analyst. ``With Serena, you still have the
biggest story line with her going for 24.''

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    While live sports are back, spectators are not in most cases.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/sports/empty-stadiums-live-fans.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Readers}
    comment on what they were missing as fans in the stands.
  \item
    The Canadian Football League
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/sports/cfl-season-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{became
    the latest casualty} of the pandemic, canceling its 2020 season
    after repeated efforts to play an abbreviated schedule fell through.
  \item
    The United States Open tennis tournament will have the weakest
    women's field in its history after second-ranked
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/sports/tennis/us-open-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Simona
    Halep withdrew}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Women's tennis is particularly deep and egalitarian at the moment.
Plenty of established threats are still in the field, including
Pliskova, Osaka, Petra Kvitova and the resurgent Garbiñe Muguruza, the
powerful Spaniard who lost to Kenin in this year's Australian Open
final. There are also new threats like Kenin and 16-year-old Coco Gauff.

But there is no ignoring reality, either.

``This definitely has to be the weakest U.S. Open of the Open era,''
Austin said, referring to 1968, when professionals were allowed to play
the Grand Slam events, and afterward. ``There might have been some
Australian Opens and French Opens that were not as well attended, but
that was obviously not because of the pandemic. It was because not
everyone was playing them at the time. I think the Halep withdrawal is a
particularly tough one. But I think the U.S.T.A. is doing the best they
can in a difficult situation.''

In total, 19 of the current top 100 women have withdrawn, and more
attrition is possible in the days ahead with a former No. 1, Angelique
Kerber, among the undecided.

Some stars will be absent because of injury, including Andreescu, who
has been out since October with a knee injury and recently injured a
foot.

But the vast majority of absentees have concerns about traveling during
the pandemic or about managing a dense tournament schedule that, after a
five-month hiatus, has packed two Grand Slam tournaments into a six-week
period.

The U.S. Open is set to run on hardcourts in New York from Aug. 31 to
Sept. 13, with the French Open to follow on clay in Paris from Sept. 27
to Oct. 11 after being postponed from its original dates in late May and
early June.

The prospect of quickly changing continents and surfaces has led to some
players prioritizing the clay-court circuit, including Bertens and, in
the men's game, Rafael Nadal.

The U.S. Open men's tournament has certainly taken major hits as well.
Nadal is ranked No. 2 and is the reigning U.S. Open men's champion. Gaël
Monfils, the acrobatic Frenchman ranked No. 9, has also withdrawn, along
with Stan Wawrinka, the 2016 U.S. Open men's champion who is playing in
a minor league Challenger event in Prague this week rather than
traveling to the United States.

Roger Federer, a five-time U.S. Open champion ranked No. 4, is also out,
but would most likely have missed the event even without the pandemic.
He has announced that he is out for the rest of the season as he
recovers from his second knee surgery of 2020.

Still, at this stage, only three of the top 10 men and nine of the top
100 are missing from the U.S. Open field. No. 1 Novak Djokovic, winner
of five of the last seven Grand Slam singles titles and 17 over all, has
arrived in New York and trained in Ashe Stadium. Ahead of the U.S. Open,
he plans to play the Western \& Southern Open, which begins on Saturday
and has been moved to New York from Mason, Ohio, to create a
two-tournament bubble.

It is unclear why more of the leading European men have decided to play
in New York than the leading European women.

``I don't think it has anything to do with being men or women,'' said
Sven Groeneveld, who has coached the former women's No. 1s Maria
Sharapova and Ana Ivanovic and is in New York coaching a Japanese men's
player, Taro Daniel. ``I think it comes down to personal reasons and
individual decisions.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
