Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Fire the Officer in the Eric
Garner Case? De Blasio Falters

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Sjv7rf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fire-the-officer-in-the-eric-garner-case-de-blasio-falters}{%
\section{Fire the Officer in the Eric Garner Case? De Blasio
Falters}\label{fire-the-officer-in-the-eric-garner-case-de-blasio-falters}}

The mayor has come under rising criticism for declining to support
demands by Mr. Garner's family for the Police Department to dismiss the
officer.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/17/nyregion/17bdbgarnerNEW/merlin_158085861_7f43c224-a64d-430d-822b-fb03e36213b3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeffery-c-mays}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-jeffery-c-mays/author-jeffery-c-mays-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeffery-c-mays}{Jeffery
C. Mays}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 17, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}What you need to know to start the day:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/newyorktoday?module=inline}{\emph{Get
New York Today in your inbox}}\emph{.{]}}

In the five years since Eric Garner died at the hands of several police
officers on Staten Island, Mayor Bill de Blasio
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/15/nyregion/mayor-de-blasio-seeks-to-strike-a-balance-at-memorial-for-eric-garner.html}{has
often spoken} about how the incident was profoundly personal to him, as
the father of a biracial son.

He mentioned it in 2014, after a grand jury in Staten Island declined to
indict Officer Daniel Pantaleo in Mr. Garner's death, and has continued
to do so on the 2020 campaign trail as a long-shot presidential
candidate, trying to appeal to the far left.

But Mr. Garner's death also highlights a potential vulnerability for the
mayor: He has never called for Officer Pantaleo to be fired, declining
again on Wednesday to do so, saying it was important to respect the
officer's right to due process. He also delayed for years a departmental
trial that could have led to the officer's dismissal; the trial finally
began in May, and is now awaiting an administrative judge's decision.

But with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/16/nyregion/eric-garner-case-death-daniel-pantaleo.html}{Justice
Department's decision on Tuesday to decline to bring federal civil
rights charges} against Officer Pantaleo, Mr. de Blasio's stance has
come under closer scrutiny and criticism from Mr. Garner's relatives,
and even from Democratic colleagues of the mayor.

``The D.O.J. made their decision. We are looking for de Blasio to make
his,'' Mr. Garner's mother, Gwen Carr, said at a news conference on
Tuesday. ``We want him to stand up as the mayor he's supposed to be.''

The city comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, said it was ``an outrage that
Officer Pantaleo has not been fired.'' The Council speaker, Corey
Johnson, said the officer ``should have been fired months ago, if not
years ago.'' And Jumaane Williams, the public advocate, implored Mr. de
Blasio to ``do something, or don't mention Eric Garner's name ever
again.''

``You cannot be president, you cannot be the Democratic nominee, if
Daniel Pantaleo is still on the force,'' Mr. Williams said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/17/nyregion/17bdbgarner02/merlin_158026710_3792c623-b2b7-4e50-b23e-d54f10bd6aa2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As a legal matter, Mr. de Blasio cannot directly fire Officer Pantaleo;
that role falls to the police commissioner, James P. O'Neill, who has
said he will not act until after the administrative judge delivers a
ruling.

But the mayor certainly has influence over the Police Department, and it
was his decision to postpone the city's disciplinary proceedings until
the federal investigation was complete. The mayor has also said that
Officer Pantaleo was entitled to due process, just like any other
unionized city employee, saying in May, ``It's not my place to pass
judgment.''

On Wednesday, the mayor made his first public comments since the Justice
Department announced its decision. He said at a news conference that he
was ``not going to listen to a bunch of politicians.''

Earlier, in a radio interview on Hot 97, the mayor said that the city
was ``following the law. We've got to give people due process,'' and
that the ``No. 1 way to honor Eric Garner is to make sure there isn't
another instance like this.''

The Hot 97 host, Ebro Darden, immediately challenged Mr. de Blasio. ``I
disagree,'' he said. ``I believe the No. 1 way you can honor Eric Garner
is firing Officer Pantaleo.''

The Rev. Al Sharpton said he also confronted the mayor when they
privately spoke on Wednesday. Mr. Sharpton said Mr. de Blasio told him
that the police commissioner would make a decision about Mr. Pantaleo
next month; Mr. Sharpton said that was unacceptable.

``I told him that the evidence is unequivocally there to terminate
Pantaleo now,'' Mr. Sharpton said in an interview. ``This man should not
be on the taxpayers' payroll.''

Mr. de Blasio can also clearly damage the relationship he has had with a
loyal base. ``Those of us who stood with you want this man to be
fired,'' Mr. Sharpton said. ``Five years is too long.''

Image

Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Wednesday that Officer Daniel Pantaleo was
entitled to due process, and he was ``not going to listen to a bunch of
politicians'' calling for the officer's immediate
dismissal.Credit...Brendan Mcdermid/Reuters

For now, the mayor has moved to change the city's policy for how it
responds to cases where an unarmed civilian is killed by the police. Mr.
de Blasio said on Tuesday that in future cases the city would
immediately begin disciplinary proceedings, unless the family of the
victim asks for a potential criminal case to proceed first, or a judge
orders the city to wait until a prosecutor finishes the investigation.

``Years ago, we put our faith in the federal government to act. We won't
make that mistake again,'' Mr. de Blasio said in a statement. The change
would ``make sure no family ever waits years for the answers they
deserve.''

Freddi Goldstein, Mr. de Blasio's spokeswoman, said the change in policy
means we ``admitted we made a mistake.''

That was not enough for Ms. Carr, who said Mr. de Blasio already had the
``power to do the right thing'' and fire Officer Pantaleo, or for Mr.
Garner's sister, Ellisha Flagg-Garner.

``Enough is enough, de Blasio, step up,'' Ms. Flagg-Garner said on
Tuesday. ``Do your job. Stop trying to be a president when you can't
even be a mayor.''

Ms. Flagg-Garner then addressed Mr. de Blasio's wife, Chirlane McCray.
``As a black woman, let me say something to you,'' she said. ``I think
you should have stepped up as a better woman to your husband to let him
know you have a black son and so does he.''

Mr. de Blasio's son, Dante, played an important role in his father's
upset victory in the 2013 Democratic mayoral primary; at the age of 15,
Dante starred in a political ad touting his father as the only candidate
who would end the police practice of stop and frisk, which a federal
judge ruled was discriminatory to black and Latino men. Dante, now a
21-year-old Yale graduate,
recently\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/12/nyregion/dante-de-blasio-2020-iowa.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fjeffery-c.-mays\&action=click\&contentCollection=undefined\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=4\&pgtype=collection}{joined
his father's campaign.}

Mr. de Blasio has continued to refer to his son on the 2020 trail.
During the first Democratic presidential debate last month, Mr. de
Blasio said he was the only person on the stage who was ``raising a
black son in America,'' and talked about how he had to ``have very, very
serious talks with my son, Dante, about how to protect himself on the
streets of our city and all over this country.''

Monifa Bandele, a member of the steering committee for Communities
United for Police Reform, said her texts and social media feed exploded
with anger when Mr. de Blasio made that comment.

Anger over Mr. Garner's death, and the lack of any discipline or charges
against Officer Pantaleo, is expected to continue to foment over the
next week or so. Kirsten John Foy, head of the activism group Arc of
Justice, promised 11 days of protests around the city; at least two were
planned for Wednesday at Foley Square in Manhattan and at Staten
Island's St. George Terminal.

There is precedent for the city to act quickly and remove an officer. As
federal prosecutors investigated whether to charge
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1998/10/09/nyregion/former-officer-gets-7-1-2-years-in-man-s-death.html?auth=login-email}{Officer
Francis X. Livoti with civil rights violations} after he placed Anthony
Baez in a chokehold in 1994, the city held an administrative trial and
fired Mr. Livoti.

The city also quickly moved to start administrative proceedings against
two officers accused of sexually assaulting an 18-year-old woman while
on duty in Coney Island, Brooklyn. The two officers quit before the
trial began and sexual assault charges against the pair were eventually
dropped.

Christina Greer, an associate professor of political science at Fordham
University, said the Garner issue leaves Mr. de Blasio vulnerable,
especially during the upcoming Democratic debate in Detroit at the end
of this month. The mayor's opponents could frame the five-year delay in
dealing with Mr. Pantaleo as mismanagement and a lack of leadership.

``He'd better have an airtight answer,'' Professor Greer said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
