Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Vaccine,
TikTok, SpaceX: Your Monday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XmKQcD}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{vaccine-tiktok-spacex-your-monday-briefing}{%
\section{Vaccine, TikTok, SpaceX: Your Monday
Briefing}\label{vaccine-tiktok-spacex-your-monday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/carole-landry}{Carole
Landry}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering a bid by \textbf{Indian billionaires to mass-produce a
coronavirus vaccine}, a threat by President \textbf{Trump to ban TikTok}
and the return of \textbf{SpaceX astronauts} to Earth.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/briefing/03ambriefing-asia-slide-EI5E/03ambriefing-asia-slide-EI5E-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-indian-billionaires-who-may-help-vanquish-covid}{%
\subsection{The Indian billionaires who may help vanquish
Covid}\label{the-indian-billionaires-who-may-help-vanquish-covid}}

The world's largest vaccine maker, the Serum Institute, which is
controlled by a small and very rich Indian family, has teamed up with
scientists from the University of Oxford, who are developing a promising
coronavirus vaccine.

The company plans
to\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/asia/coronavirus-vaccine-india.html}{mass-produce
hundreds of millions of doses of the vaccine,} which is still in
clinical trials and might not even work. But if it does, Adar
Poonawalla, the chief executive of Serum, will have on hand what
everyone wants --- and possibly in huge quantities --- before anyone
else.

Mr. Poonawalla says that he will split the vaccine doses he produces
50-50 between India and the rest of the world, with a focus on poorer
countries. The Serum Institute is steered by only two men: Mr.
Poonawalla and his father, Cyrus, a horse breeder who became a
billionaire.

\textbf{Leapfrogging:} Vaccines take time not just to perfect but to
manufacture. More than one project is conducting these two processes
simultaneously and starting production now, while the vaccines are still
in trials. That way, if and when a vaccine is approved --- at best
within the next six months, though no one really knows --- doses will be
on hand.

\textbf{The global race:} U.S. and European governments have sealed
billions of dollars in deals with pharmaceutical giants like Johnson \&
Johnson, Pfizer, Sanofi and AstraZeneca to speed up the development and
production of select vaccine candidates in exchange for hundreds of
millions of doses.

Here are the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{latest
updates} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps}
tracking the pandemic.

\textbf{In other developments:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Australian officials announced
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-74f9a2b2}{stricter
  restrictions in Melbourne} in an effort to stem an outbreak that is
  raging despite a lockdown that began four weeks ago. On Sunday, there
  were 671 new cases reported in the state of Victoria, suggesting that
  the virus is more widespread than previously thought.
\item
  Millions of dollars of American taxpayer money
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/virus-china-ppp-small-business-loans.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{have
  flowed to China} from a \$660 billion program that was created to be a
  lifeline for struggling small businesses in the U.S.
\item
  The U.S. recorded
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{more
  than 1.9 million new infections in July,} more than double the number
  recorded in any other month, according to a Times database.
\item
  India's biggest film star,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html\#link-144c443a}{Amitabh
  Bachchan}, was discharged from the hospital on Sunday after recovering
  from Covid-19, while the country's home minister, Amit Shah, tested
  positive for the virus.
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Dado Ruvic/Reuters

\hypertarget{whats-up-with-trump-and-tiktok}{%
\subsection{What's up with Trump and
TikTok?}\label{whats-up-with-trump-and-tiktok}}

The popular app is known for its videos of teenagers and celebrities,
often dancing or lip-syncing to audio clips. It all seems fun and even
silly.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T17:52:35.962Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But in recent days,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/technology/tiktok-trump-microsoft-bytedance-china-ban.html}{President
Trump has talked of banning TikTok from the U.S.} White House officials
have said the app may pose a national security threat because of its
Chinese ownership.

ByteDance, the Chinese internet giant that owns TikTok,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/technology/tiktok-sale-trump-ban.html}{has
offered to sell all of the app's U.S. operations} as a way to save the
business from being banned by the Trump administration.

\textbf{What's next:} It's not clear whether the Trump administration
would accept the divestment as a response to its concerns. Microsoft and
other companies have been in talks to buy TikTok, but no deal has been
reached.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Illegal logging in the Amazon rainforestCredit...Victor Moriyama for The
New York Times

\hypertarget{brazils-leader-bows-to-pressure-to-protect-the-amazon}{%
\subsection{Brazil's leader bows to pressure to protect the
Amazon}\label{brazils-leader-bows-to-pressure-to-protect-the-amazon}}

European governments and foreign investors
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/americas/Brazil-amazon-deforestation-bolsonaro.html?referringSource=articleShare}{have
been cranking up pressure on the Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, to
stop deforestation} in the Amazon.

And it seems to be working. The man who insisted ``The Amazon is ours''
a year ago has banned intentional forest fires used for clearing ---
though environmentalists, experts and foreign officials who have pressed
Brazil on conservation matters worry that the actions amount to little
more than damage control at a time when the economy is in deep trouble.

\textbf{Points of leverage:} Brazil's poor environmental reputation has
put two important foreign policy goals in jeopardy. One is a trade deal
with the E.U., and the other is joining the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Both require Brazil to meet labor and
environmental standards.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-12-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 12 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-12-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{german-case-points-to-a-bigger-far-right-threat}{%
\subsection{German case points to a bigger far-right
threat}\label{german-case-points-to-a-bigger-far-right-threat}}

Image

A military accessory shop in Germany whose owner was part of the
Northern Cross group of far-right extremists.~Credit...Gordon Welters
for The New York Times

Germany has begun dealing with far-right networks that officials say are
far more extensive than they had understood.

Our correspondent takes a look at the Northern Cross group, which had
planned for ``Day X,'' a mythical moment when committed far-right
extremists would
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/europe/germany-nazi-infiltration.html}{round
up and kill political enemies and those defending migrants and
refugees.} The group, which included former police officers and
soldiers, was uncovered more than three years ago but only recently
brought to trial.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Afghan attack:} Militants detonated a car bomb and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/asia/afghan-prison-attack-prisoners.html}{waged
a gun battle against guards at a major prison} in eastern Afghanistan
for hours on Sunday. Dozens of inmates managed to escape. The Islamic
State claimed responsibility for the attack through its Amaq news
agency.

\textbf{New Middle East nuclear power:} On Saturday, the United Arab
Emirates became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/middleeast/uae-nuclear-Barakah.html}{the
first Arab country to open a nuclear power plant}, raising concerns
about introducing more nuclear programs to the Middle East. Israel and
Iran also have nuclear capacities.

\textbf{Ivanka Trump:} The president's eldest daughter and her husband,
Jared Kushner, reported
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/business/ivanka-trump-jared-kushner-financial-disclosure.html}{income
of at least \$36 million in 2019,} according to financial disclosure
reports. The couple's investments, mostly in real estate, were worth at
least \$204 million and as much as \$783 million.

Image

Credit...Getty Images

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/science/spacex-nasa-return.html}{SpaceX
Crew Dragon spacecraft splashing down} in the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday.
The capsule carrying the astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley was the
first crewed water landing by NASA since 1975.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Speaking out:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/world/asia/india-prince-manvendra-gay-rights.html}{Prince
Manvendra} of India is one of the few gay-rights activists in the world
with high-level royal ties. His journey from a lonely childhood to
global advocacy included death threats and a disinheritance.

\textbf{What we're reading:}
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-53432877}{This BBC exploration
of England's fascination with pineapples}, which involves novelty,
scarcity and money. ``Human nature doesn't change very much,'' says
Steven Erlanger, our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Linda Xiao for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Monica
Pierini.

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/dining/farro-corn-chickpea-salad-recipe.html}{highly
textured salad} gets its bite from farro, its crunch from spiced
chickpeas and its sweetness from roasted corn and slivered fennel.

\textbf{Listen and watch:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/arts/music/beyonce-black-is-king.html}{Beyoncé's
``Black Is King,''} released on Friday, is a visual album connected to
Disney's remake last year of ``The Lion King.'' A handful of our critics
reviewed it from different angles, including Vanessa Friedman, who
described the amount of fashion on display as ``overwhelming.''

\textbf{Taste:} Our wine critic has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/dining/drinks/wine-school-verdicchio-di-matelica.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{a
selection of verdicchios} on offer. These white wines from the Marche
region, on Italy's Adriatic coast, offer simple refreshment while also
carrying hints of complex aromas and flavors.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At
Home has our full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook,
watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{maos-china-covered-by-my-father-still-echoes}{%
\subsection{Mao's China, covered by my father, still
echoes}\label{maos-china-covered-by-my-father-still-echoes}}

\emph{Like father, like daughter: Alexandra Stevenson, a Times
correspondent who covers China's economy from Hong Kong, took a look
back at the reporting her father, William Stevenson, did for The Toronto
Star and The Star Weekly in the 1950s as one of the first foreign
journalists to work in China after the Communist takeover.}

\emph{Here's an excerpt from}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/30/world/asia/china-1950s-echoed-today.html}{\emph{an
article she wrote}} \emph{about how much of what he described is still
recognizable.}

My father left behind written notes and newspaper clippings, stacks of
passports with visas, photos and transcripts from his first and
subsequent trips to China. They have allowed me to imagine conversations
that we might have had in the six years since he died. Conversations
about how the country he saw back then --- brimming with hope and
enthusiasm yet also tightly controlled --- is in some ways the same
today.

Image

William StevensonCredit...Richard Harrington, via Stephen Bulger Gallery

His first trip to China spanned two months and thousands of miles. He
met Mao Zedong (whom he tapped on the shoulder from behind his camera,
mistaking the chairman for a ``humble courtier'' blocking his shot) and
Zhou Enlai, the premier and foreign minister at the time. But he also
talked with factory workers, actors, newspaper editors and shop owners.

He described being filled with hope for the human spirit he witnessed.
But he also felt despair because a government-provided handler was never
too far away, ready to silence anyone who veered too far from the
Communist Party line.

China defied any broad-brush statement. ``And yet,'' he wrote in one
notebook, ``under the current leadership, the way in which the
government silences alternative points of view makes it hard not to.''

A version of this exists today. I have a long list of names of people
who wouldn't talk to me because I work for The New York Times, portrayed
in Chinese state media as the source of ``smears and lies.'' Sources
I've interviewed privately are later threatened by the local police,
while stridently nationalist rhetoric dominates the state media.

Several months after I returned to Hong Kong, the Chinese government in
March expelled my American colleagues as part of a diplomatic dispute
with the United States. In the past month, Beijing has tightened its
grip over Hong Kong with a new national security law, threatening free
speech and other civil liberties in the city.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Carole
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Melissa Clark for the recipe, and to Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh
for the rest of the break from the news. You can reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+pm@NYTimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@NYTimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/podcasts/the-daily/vanessa-guillen-military-metoo.html}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about the killing of a female soldier
that has prompted a \#MeToo moment in the military.\\
• Here's our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini
Crossword}, and a clue: Fancy tie (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords}{You can find all
our puzzles here}.\\
•
\href{https://www.nytco.com/press/caitlin-roper-named-executive-producer-for-scripted-projects/}{Caitlin
Roper}, a senior editor at The Times Magazine, will become executive
producer for scripted projects, working alongside Hollywood producers
using our stories for fictional projects inspired by our reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
