Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Vaccine
Race, Donald Trump, SpaceX: Your Monday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DrhAKH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{vaccine-race-donald-trump-spacex-your-monday-briefing}{%
\section{Vaccine Race, Donald Trump, SpaceX: Your Monday
Briefing}\label{vaccine-race-donald-trump-spacex-your-monday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella
Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering \textbf{Russian} plans for a nationwide coronavirus
vaccination campaign, \textbf{Britain's dilemma} if President Trump
loses in November and a far-right extremist group in \textbf{Germany}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/world/03ambriefing-europe-russia/merlin_175198629_a883f758-bdbe-4fed-baae-d0294dd9ca78-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{russia-plans-mass-vaccination-after-shortened-trials}{%
\subsection{Russia plans mass vaccination after shortened
trials}\label{russia-plans-mass-vaccination-after-shortened-trials}}

Russia is planning
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/europe/russia-trials-vaccine-October.html}{a
nationwide vaccination campaign in October} with a coronavirus vaccine
that has yet to complete clinical trials. The announcement has raised
international concerns that the country would inoculate the public
without fully testing its product.

Officials said amid accelerated testing that approval would be expected
this month --- far earlier than the end-of-the-year date suggested by
Western regulators. Winning the global race would be a symbol of
national pride.

But critics say Russia has cut corners in research on other products,
and the U.S., Canadian and British governments have accused Russian
hackers of trying to steal vaccine research.

Separately, the world's largest vaccine maker, the Serum Institute is
betting on a vaccine that is in trials with Oxford University
scientists. The company plans
to\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/asia/coronavirus-vaccine-india.html}{mass
produce hundreds of millions of doses of the vaccine,} which might not
even work. But if it does, Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of
Serum, will have what everyone wants --- possibly in enormous quantities
--- before anyone else.

\textbf{An American vaccine:} Earlier in the year, officials set an
ambitious October deadline for a publicly available vaccine. Now, some
involved in the project say they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/politics/coronavirus-vaccine.html}{fear
political intervention to produce one ahead of November's election}.

\textbf{Related:} In Moscow, young Russians
are\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/europe/russia-moscow-coronavirus.html}{partying
again}, seeking a return to normal life and willing to risk a
coronavirus surge. ``We are people, not robots, and want to have a
life,'' a bar patron (and doctor) said.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  An estimated 17,000 people
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/world/europe/100000007268465/coronavirus-protest-germany.html}{protested
  in Berlin, in a march} supported by neo-Nazi groups, conspiracy
  theorists and Germans who said they were tired of restrictions.
\item
  Italy has gone from
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-reopening.html}{being
  a global pariah to a model} --- however imperfect --- of viral
  containment that holds lessons for its neighbors and the United
  States, our correspondent writes.

  Here are the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{latest
  updates} and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps}
  tracking the pandemic.
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\subsection{}

Image

In Mr. Biden, Britain would face a president who opposed Brexit and
would be more inclined to mend fences with Berlin and
Paris.Credit...Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times

\hypertarget{britains-new-dilemma-what-if-trump-loses}{%
\subsection{Britain's new dilemma: What if Trump
loses?}\label{britains-new-dilemma-what-if-trump-loses}}

Few countries have worked harder than Britain to please President Trump.
But with Mr. Trump trailing in the polls to former Vice President Joseph
Biden Jr.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/world/europe/britain-biden-presidency-johnson.html}{British
officials are waking up to the unsettling prospect} that Mr. Trump may
be out of power next year.

In Paris and Berlin, a Trump defeat would be welcomed given he has split
alliances, threatened a trade war and tried to dismantle the European
project. But in Mr. Biden, Britain would face a president who opposed
Brexit, would look out for Ireland and who may have little interest in a
trade deal.

\textbf{What it means:} Experts say the risk is a gradual slide into
irrelevance. Mr. Biden's emphasis, they said, would be on mending fences
with Berlin and Paris, not celebrating a ``special relationship'' with
London that got plenty of attention from his predecessor.

\textbf{What's next:} Pro-government papers have begun to make the case
that a President Biden would be better for Britain, and Boris Johnson,
the prime minister, has already tried to keep Mr. Trump at an arm's
length even as he avoids offending him.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

Image

Smoke billowed from a fire in an area of the Amazon rainforest near
Porto Velho, Rondonia State, in Brazil, last year.Credit...Bruno
Kelly/Reuters

\hypertarget{brazils-leader-bows-to-pressure-to-protect-the-amazon}{%
\subsection{Brazil's leader bows to pressure to protect the
Amazon}\label{brazils-leader-bows-to-pressure-to-protect-the-amazon}}

European governments and foreign investors
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/americas/Brazil-amazon-deforestation-bolsonaro.html?referringSource=articleShare}{have
been pressuring the Brazilian president, Jair Bolsonaro, to stop
deforestation} in the Amazon.

And it seems to be working. The man who a year ago insisted ``the Amazon
is ours'' has set up a military operation to defend it and banned
intentional forest fires used for clearing --- though environmentalists
and foreign officials who have pressed Brazil on conservation matters
worry that the actions are little more than damage control given the
economy is in deep trouble.

\textbf{Points of leverage:} Brazil's poor environmental reputation has
put two important foreign policy goals in jeopardy. One is a trade deal
with the E.U., and the other is joining the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development. Both require Brazil to meet labor and
environmental standards.

\textbf{Example:} This week, Nordea Asset Management, a major European
investment firm, announced it had dropped from its funds the Brazilian
meat processing giant JBS SA over the company's role in deforestation
and other concerns.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-12-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 12 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-12-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{german-case-points-to-a-bigger-far-right-threat}{%
\subsection{German case points to a bigger far-right
threat}\label{german-case-points-to-a-bigger-far-right-threat}}

Image

A military accessory shop in Germany whose owner was part of the
Northern Cross group of far-right extremists.~Credit...Gordon Welters
for The New York Times

Germany has begun dealing with far-right networks that officials say are
far more extensive than they had understood.

Our correspondent takes a look at the Northern Cross group, which had
planned for ``Day X'' --- a mythical moment when committed far-right
extremists would
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/europe/germany-nazi-infiltration.html}{round
up and kill political enemies and those defending migrants and
refugees.} The group, which included former police officers and
soldiers, was uncovered more than three years ago but only recently
brought to trial.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Italy:} Less than two years after the collapse of a bridge in
Genoa killed 43 people, Italy will
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/europe/genoa-Morandi-bridge-replacement.html}{inaugurate
a replacement on Monday}. But residents fear it will not be enough to
revive their aging port city, and critics of the government say it's
handling of the aftermath
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/europe/italy-genoa-bridge-collapse-benettons.html}{is
troubling to investors.}

\textbf{U.K. politician:} A Conservative lawmaker in Britain was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/europe/uk-conservative-lawmaker-arrest.html}{arrested
this weekend} after a former employee accused him of raping her,
according to British news reports. The lawmaker, who has not been
publicly identified, was released on bail.

\textbf{New Middle East nuclear power:} On Saturday, the United Arab
Emirates became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/middleeast/uae-nuclear-Barakah.html}{the
first Arab country to open a nuclear power plant}, raising concerns
about introducing more nuclear programs to the Middle East. Israel and
Iran also have some nuclear capacities.

Image

Credit...Bill Ingalls/NASA, via Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/science/spacex-nasa-return.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{SpaceX
Crew Dragon spacecraft splashing down} in the Gulf of Mexico on Sunday.
The capsule carrying the astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley
was the first crewed water landing by NASA since 1975.

\textbf{Speaking out:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/world/asia/india-prince-manvendra-gay-rights.html}{Prince
Manvendra} of India is one of the few activists for L.G.B.T.Q. rights in
the world with high-level royal ties. His journey from a lonely
childhood to global advocacy included death threats and a
disinheritance.

\textbf{What we're reading:}
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-england-53432877}{This BBC exploration
of England's fascination with pineapples}, which involves novelty,
scarcity and money. ``Human nature doesn't change very much,'' says
Steven Erlanger, our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Linda Xiao for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Monica
Pierini.

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/dining/farro-corn-chickpea-salad-recipe.html}{highly
textured salad} gets its bite from farro, its crunch from spiced
chickpeas and its sweetness from roasted corn and slivered fennel.

\textbf{Listen and watch:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/arts/music/beyonce-black-is-king.html}{Beyoncé's
``Black Is King,''} released on Friday, is a visual album connected to
Disney's remake last year of ``The Lion King.'' A handful of our critics
reviewed it from different angles, including Vanessa Friedman, who
described the amount of fashion on display as ``overwhelming.''

\textbf{Taste:} Our wine critic has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/dining/drinks/wine-school-verdicchio-di-matelica.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{a
selection of verdicchios} on offer. These white wines from the Marche
region, on Italy's Adriatic coast, offer simple refreshment while also
carrying hints of complex aromas and flavors.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At
Home has our full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook,
watch and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{maos-china-covered-by-my-father-still-echoes}{%
\subsection{Mao's China, covered by my father, still
echoes}\label{maos-china-covered-by-my-father-still-echoes}}

\emph{Like father, like daughter: Alexandra Stevenson, a Times
correspondent who covers China's economy from Hong Kong, took a look
back at the reporting her father, William Stevenson, did for The Toronto
Star and The Star Weekly in the 1950s as one of the first foreign
journalists to work in China after the Communist takeover.}

\emph{Here's an excerpt from}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/30/world/asia/china-1950s-echoed-today.html}{\emph{an
article she wrote}} \emph{about how much of what he described is still
recognizable.}

My father left behind written notes and newspaper clippings, stacks of
passports with visas, photos and transcripts from his first and
subsequent trips to China. They have allowed me to imagine conversations
that we might have had in the six years since he died. Conversations
about how the country he saw back then --- brimming with hope and
enthusiasm yet also tightly controlled --- is in some ways the same
today.

Image

William StevensonCredit...Richard Harrington, via Stephen Bulger Gallery

His first trip to China spanned two months and thousands of miles. He
met Mao Zedong (whom he tapped on the shoulder from behind his camera,
mistaking the chairman for a ``humble courtier'' blocking his shot) and
Zhou Enlai, the premier and foreign minister at the time. But he also
talked with factory workers, actors, newspaper editors and shop owners.

He described being filled with hope for the human spirit he witnessed.
But he also felt despair because a government-provided handler was never
too far away, ready to silence anyone who veered too far from the
Communist Party line.

China defied any broad-brush statement. ``And yet,'' he wrote in one
notebook, ``under the current leadership, the way in which the
government silences alternative points of view makes it hard not to.''

A version of this exists today. I have a long list of names of people
who wouldn't talk to me because I work for The New York Times, portrayed
in Chinese state media as the source of ``smears and lies.'' Sources
I've interviewed privately are later threatened by the local police,
while stridently nationalist rhetoric dominates the state media.

Several months after I returned to Hong Kong, the Chinese government in
March expelled my American colleagues as part of a diplomatic dispute
with the United States. In the past month, Beijing has tightened its
grip over Hong Kong with a new national security law, threatening free
speech and other civil liberties in the city.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Melissa Clark for the recipe, and to Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh
for the rest of the break from the news. You can reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@NYTimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@NYTimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/thedaily}{The Daily}.'' Our
latest episode is about a writer exploring the potentially constructive
force of female anger.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini
Crossword puzzle}, and a clue: U.F.O. pilot (five letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords}{You can find all
our puzzles here}.\\
•
\href{https://www.nytco.com/press/caitlin-roper-named-executive-producer-for-scripted-projects/}{Caitlin
Roper}, a senior editor at The Times Magazine, will become executive
producer for scripted projects, working alongside Hollywood producers
using our stories for fictional projects inspired by our reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
