Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}Chess Thrives Online Despite
Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Ld3Unb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{chess-thrives-online-despite-pandemic}{%
\section{Chess Thrives Online Despite
Pandemic}\label{chess-thrives-online-despite-pandemic}}

The world's top chess players are competing online with in-person
tournaments shut down. Millions of amateurs are joining in, too.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/08/sports/08virus-chess-2/merlin_172319088_92d1f618-cbf0-48e1-a1b3-0961bd0e74f6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-waldstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-david-waldstein/author-david-waldstein-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-waldstein}{David
Waldstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It was 8 a.m. Tuesday in St. Louis when the American chess grandmaster
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/03/sports/bobby-fischer-chess-caruana.html}{Fabiano
Caruana}, ranked second best in the world, moved his pawn to E4.

It was 6:30 p.m., and over 8,000 miles away in Nashik, India, when his
opponent, Vidit Gujrathi, responded from his home, just seconds after
Caruana's opening: pawn to E5.

And so began the Online Nations Cup, an unprecedented international team
chess tournament borne of the coronavirus pandemic.

While the outbreak has forced most sports around the world to shut down,
chess has not only found a way to carry on --- it is thriving in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/well/family/coronavirus-quarantine-board-games-videoconferencing.html}{some
ways}. In the past several weeks there has been a surge in grass roots
participation in chess to go along with a few high-profile professional
events online.

This past week, the Online Nations Cup brought 36 of the world's top
players together in their homes across multiple time zones, from
Brooklyn to Beijing. They have been moving pieces on their laptop
chessboards in a competition that, at its core, is the same game they
would contest under normal conditions.

The tournament can be seen on multiple platforms, has a record purse of
\$180,000 and is being broadcast in a dozen languages.

``It is one of the biggest things we've ever done on chess.com,'' said
Daniel Rensch, the co-founder of the site, who commentates on the action
live.

Video game versions of most sports entail entirely different skill sets
from the real thing; manipulating a remote device from a couch bears
little resemblance to being sacked by a 300-pound lineman. But online
chess is essentially the same game, and when other sports were halted in
March under a worldwide shutdown, fans were left starving for something
to watch --- and do.

With newfound time on their hands, people have turned to online chess by
the millions.

``Participation online has doubled, at least doubled,'' said Arkady
Dvorkovich, the president of FIDE, chess's world governing body, which
is co-hosting the Online Nations Cup with chess.com.

The flood of enthusiasm has left chess.com and the other big chess
websites like Chess24 and Lichess scrambling to keep up. Nick Barton,
the director of business development for chess.com, said server capacity
had to be increased to meet demand, technicians and engineers were asked
to work overtime, and others were hired to handle the global crush.

The servers twice went down briefly --- once by design --- and officials
could virtually track the spread of the virus through the geography of
the new sign-ups.

``It has been sad in a way, because you could see it move country by
country,'' Rensch said. ``Italy went from 4,000 per day to 10,000 and it
just swept across as different countries dealt with the Covid-19
pandemic.''

Barton said chess.com is on target to experience five years of growth in
three months. In April, 1.5 million joined, compared to the more typical
670,000 new members recorded in January.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/10/sports/08virus-chess-1/merlin_172298652_8cac9904-bb0e-42da-ad06-a930e401019a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Local clubs moved online after their physical locations closed, drawing
new members.

``There has been a huge flock to chess clubs,'' Barton said. ``People
can build virtual communities as a way of emulating real life.''

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Sept. 11, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Baseball plans to
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/baseball/mlb-postseason-neutral-sites.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{hold
    its playoff games}~at four stadiums in Southern California and
    Texas, with the World Series held at the Texas Rangers' new
    ballpark.
  \item
    N.F.L. teams have spent years trying to create over-the-top
    entertainment for fans inside stadiums. This year, they'll just be
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/sports/football/what-will-nfl-games-sound-like.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{trying
    to cover up echoes}~from empty seats.
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The shutdowns meant that most live tournaments that are usually held in
arenas, hotel ballrooms and convention halls were canceled, and for most
there was no replacement. When the biennial Chess Olympiad --- a major
team event scheduled for August in Moscow --- was scrubbed until next
year, FIDE and chess.com ramped up a concept they had been discussing
for years: a new online team event.

They put it together in roughly three weeks, and most of the best
grandmasters in the world signed up, save for Magnus Carlsen, who is
ranked No. 1 and just finished hosting his own unique online event
recently.

Carlsen won that event on May 3, and when it was over, Jan Gustafsson,
the grandmaster who was commentating, signed off by thanking fans for
watching. He added: ``Not that you guys have any other choices. Let's
face it, there's no other sports going on.''

But there is real chess and two days later, the Online Nations Cup began
as the richest online team event ever, with the winning team sharing
\$48,000. It is a double round robin that runs over six days with six
teams --- the United States, China, India, Russia, Europe and one called
The Rest of the World. The top two teams meet in the final on Sunday.

There have been a couple of minor glitches, such as when Team Europe's
Zoom conferencing went down briefly on Day 2. But after four rounds with
24 games per day --- 12 at a time --- this tournament, and the Carlsen
event before it, have helped to quench a chess enthusiast's thirst.

``There's a lot of games, a lot of drama and that's amazing,'' a
somewhat exhausted Rensch said on Wednesday, after broadcasting the
third and fourth rounds. ``Sometimes it can get a little crazy, but it's
been super exciting.''

Four players from each team compete in each round, seen via webcam in
their offices, bedrooms and kitchens. The format is rapid chess with the
same 25-minute time control used in world championship tiebreakers. The
starting time was designed to accommodate so many different times zones:
Rensch is in his studio in Phoenix, ready to broadcast before play
begins at 6 a.m. there, but for the players in China, it is 9 p.m. when
play starts.

Each team has a captain --- Garry Kasparov, the former world champion,
captains Europe --- and they decide each day's roster. One woman must
play in each round for each team, and each team also has one male and
one female alternate.

``Involving women in tournaments like this is a great idea,'' Dinara
Saduakassova, a former junior champion, wrote in an email before her
first match for the World team on Wednesday. ``I would like to see more
and more girls and women playing chess.''

Image

National teams, including the United States and one called The Rest of
the World, competed in the Online Nations Cup.Credit...Screenshot from
chess.com

Her opponent in that first match was the U.S.'s Irina Krush, who played
from her home in Brooklyn. Saduakassova is playing from her home in
Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, where she set up a mobile router as backup.
Wi-Fi is as important to these events as bases on a baseball diamond.

Anish Giri, a Dutch grandmaster playing from his parents home in
Rijswijk, the Netherlands, said that he is obsessed with his
connectivity.

``I was playing in a smaller online tournament and the Wi-Fi went out,''
Giri said in a telephone interview recently. ``I was furious. I did a
lot of research and I upgraded everything. Now my Wi-Fi is absolutely
insane.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/sports/chess-cheating.html}{Another
key issue is fair play}. No one expects the top players to cheat, but
FIDE and chess.com, which invest heavily in anti-cheating methods, still
must ensure the integrity of the tournament. So, an arbiter and a
proctor are assigned to monitor every player, and multiple cameras can
show every angle, including all the laptop screens, at all times.

At live tournaments, players are permitted to walk around and go to the
bathroom, but in online competitions players are all but glued to their
laptops. That affected the tactics in at least one game.

``I was just trying to play as quickly as possible because I kind of had
to use the restroom,'' Caruana told Rensch in an interview after his win
over Gujrathi.

There are other subtle differences, too. Some of the intensity is lost
in online chess with opponents sitting thousands of miles apart.

Dvorkovich, the FIDE president who is also the captain of the World
team, said that makes it harder for some players to concentrate.

``We are missing the emotional part when people meet and shake hands,''
Dvorkovich said. ``People love when they look over the board into the
eyes of their opponent. People are missing that. But this is a very good
substitute.''

It has been for millions of amateurs, too.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
