Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Bernie Sanders Drops Out of
2020 Democratic Race for President

\url{https://nyti.ms/3e8uz1F}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bernie-sanders-drops-out-of-2020-democratic-race-for-president}{%
\section{Bernie Sanders Drops Out of 2020 Democratic Race for
President}\label{bernie-sanders-drops-out-of-2020-democratic-race-for-president}}

Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist making his second run for the White
House, withdrew after a series of losses to Joseph R. Biden Jr., who
emerges as the presumptive nominee for the general election.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/11/us/politics/00Sandersdrops-HFO-new/00Sandersdrops-HFO-new-videoSixteenByNine3000-v5.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 8, 2020Updated April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/16/us/politics/bernie-sanders-joe-biden-democrats.html}{Bernie
Sander}s of Vermont ended his presidential candidacy on Wednesday,
concluding a quest that elevated him as a standard-bearer of American
liberalism and clearing the way for a general election between the
presumptive Democratic nominee, Joseph R. Biden Jr., and President Trump
at a time of national crisis.

In a live-streamed speech, Mr. Sanders, eloquent but without his
characteristic spark, cast his decision in the broader context of the
fight against the coronavirus. ``I cannot in good conscience continue to
mount a campaign that cannot win and which would interfere with the
important work required of all of us in this difficult hour,'' Mr.
Sanders said, adding, ``While this campaign is coming to an end, our
movement is not.''

If Mr. Biden, the former vice president, can now lay claim to the
Democratic nomination, he still faces considerable challenges in uniting
the party and mobilizing a broad base of voters for the November
election. Unlike Mr. Sanders, Mr. Biden inspired little enthusiasm among
young voters, nor did he develop signature policy proposals. He
triumphed because many voters rejected Mr. Sanders's policy agenda as
too far to the left and prohibitively expansive, and were convinced that
Mr. Biden had the best chance to beat Mr. Trump in November.

To motivate liberal Democrats who find him frustratingly conventional,
Mr. Biden, 77, will most likely need to do far more to articulate an
agenda on foundational Democratic issues like health care and climate
change.

Those issues are central to Mr. Sanders's candidacy, and in recent days,
as Mr. Sanders began to consider dropping out more seriously, his aides
intensified talks to find common ground with the Biden campaign. Mr.
Sanders ultimately became satisfied that there was movement in
directions that he wanted, a top aide said. The Biden campaign is
expected to roll out a series of policy agreements with Mr. Sanders ****
on health care and other issues --- potentially including student loans
--- starting on Thursday, according to three people with direct
knowledge of their plans.

The two camps were still negotiating the details on Wednesday, and while
Mr. Biden is not expected to embrace Mr. Sanders's full-throated call
for ``Medicare for all,'' for example, they are striving to arrive at
positions with which they are both comfortable.

Shortly after Mr. Sanders spoke on Wednesday, Mr. Biden issued a
statement thanking his opponent while acknowledging the need to draw Mr.
Sanders's loyal base into his coalition. ``I'll be reaching out to
you,'' Mr. Biden wrote. ``You will be heard by me.''

``And to your supporters," he added, ``I make the same commitment: I see
you, I hear you, and I understand the urgency of what it is we have to
get done in this country.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/10/us/politics/00Sandersdrops-HFO-support/merlin_170167884_e79643df-11f8-4d26-919c-85802d939db1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Though Mr. Sanders made it clear on Wednesday that he viewed Mr. Biden
as the party's 2020 nominee, he said he would remain on the ballot in
states that still have primaries to try to gather delegates --- a move
that could give him leverage to influence the Democratic platform and
continue carrying his message.

Mr. Sanders's departure from the race is a striking turnaround for a
candidate who less than two months ago was the clear front-runner, after
finishing in a virtual tie for first in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/07/us/politics/who-won-iowa-caucuses.html}{Iowa}
and winning in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/11/us/politics/bernie-sanders-new-hampshire-primary.html}{New
Hampshire} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/22/us/politics/bernie-sanders-nevada-caucus.html}{Nevada}.

But in a race reshaped, and eclipsed, by the escalating coronavirus
crisis, Mr. Sanders faced no realistic path to the nomination after a
series of lopsided losses to Mr. Biden, beginning in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/us/politics/joe-biden-south-carolina-primary.html}{South
Carolina} in late February and culminating with victories by Mr. Biden
in crucial states like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/10/us/politics/michigan-primary-results.html}{Michigan}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/17/us/politics/biden-florida-illinois-primary.html}{Florida}
last month.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Persistent and unyielding in pushing his agenda, Mr. Sanders is loath to
admit defeat; his withdrawal represents a tacit concession that without
a chance of overtaking Mr. Biden, he would have more leverage to advance
his priorities if he ceded the race and joined forces with his rival.

His exit is also a sharp contrast to his bid in 2016, when he stayed in
an increasingly acrimonious race against Hillary Clinton even after it
became clear she would be the nominee. Talks between the Biden and
Sanders camps this time around were eased by the cordial relationship
between the two principals. Mr. Sanders has told people close to him
that he appreciated the fact that Mr. Biden did not overtly pressure him
to quit after Super Tuesday.

Mr. Sanders also talked to former President Barack Obama at least twice
in the last month, a person familiar with the discussions said, with Mr.
Obama praising the Vermont senator's campaign and emphasizing the need
to unite against Mr. Trump. Mr. Obama, who has told friends he hopes to
ease the integration of Sanders voters into the party, made no effort to
pressure him to leave.

As Mr. Sanders pursued the White House for a second time, he promised
that he could transform the electorate, bringing new voters under the
Democratic tent, but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/24/us/politics/bernie-sanders-democratic-voters.html}{that
goal eluded him}. Even Mr. Sanders has lamented that he was unable to
produce a surge in young voters.

In early primaries this year, he also failed to show that he had
remedied a crucial weakness from his 2016 run: a lack of support from
black voters, a vital base of the Democratic Party. In state after state
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/04/us/politics/super-tuesday-virginia-voter-turnout.html}{across
the South} --- Alabama, the Carolinas, Mississippi, Virginia --- he was
unable to chip away at Mr. Biden's strong support among
African-Americans.

In many ways, Mr. Sanders never overcame the widely held view among
Democrats that he was a political outlier, a self-described democratic
socialist who proudly proclaimed himself to be an independent senator
from Vermont rather than a member of the party establishment.

Mr. Sanders championed liberal policies like ``Medicare for all'' and
tuition-free four-year public colleges aimed at lifting up America's
working class, but he faced opposition from many party leaders, elected
officials and major donors, as well as large numbers of moderate voters
who saw him as too far left.

Mr. Sanders never accepted that argument. In recent weeks he said
repeatedly that he had won the ideological debate, asserting that a
strong majority of Democrats supported his progressive agenda.

But during a striking news conference in Burlington, Vt., last month, he
also acknowledged that he was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/us/politics/bernie-sanders-democrats-2020.html}{losing
the electability battle} to Mr. Biden, saying voters had made clear that
they thought the former vice president was the best candidate to beat
Mr. Trump.

The president immediately tried to sow discord among Democrats.
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1247914464319504385}{In
a Twitter post} he blamed Mr. Sanders's inability to win Super Tuesday
states on his ideological rival, Senator Elizabeth Warren, and then
invited Sanders supporters to ``come to the Republican Party.'' At his
evening news briefing Mr. Trump was more pointed toward Mr. Biden,
saying ``It amazes me that President Obama hasn't supported Sleepy Joe.
It just hasn't happened. When's it going to happen?''

Indeed, Mr. Trump's penchant for no-holds-barred political combat
presents another challenge for Mr. Biden. Some Democrats question
whether he can withstand the kind of bitingly personal onslaught that
Mr. Trump is certain to direct his way in the general election. The
president's efforts to tar Mr. Biden with the overseas business dealings
of his son, Hunter, already upended the campaign once and led to Mr.
Trump's impeachment.

Image

The endorsement of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York
jump-started Mr. Sanders's campaign just as it appeared on the brink of
collapse last year.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Mr. Sanders, 78, leaves the campaign having almost single-handedly moved
the Democratic Party to the left. He also transformed the way Democratic
campaigns raised money, eschewing big fund-raisers and instead relying
on an army of small-dollar donors.

But as he ascended to the top of the field in February, establishment
Democrats
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/us/politics/bernie-sanders-democratic-party.html?searchResultPosition=1}{scrambled
to block his path}, convinced his far-reaching proposals would alienate
great swaths of the electorate and make him an easy target for Mr.
Trump.

Moderate candidates in the race who could not overcome Mr. Biden dropped
out and endorsed him just before Super Tuesday, on March 3, helping him
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/03/us/politics/super-tuesday-primary-winners.html}{sweep
10 of 14 states} on the biggest voting day of the primary. That led to a
wave of new endorsements and a remarkable coalescing around Mr. Biden
that Mr. Sanders could not match on the left.

Mr. Sanders's insistence on Wednesday that he wants to amass delegates
to exert influence on the platform has convinced some Democrats that a
scaled-down or even virtual convention this summer might be preferable
to a traditional event. If the nomination is conferred virtually, the
argument goes, Mr. Biden's campaign can control the platform
deliberations and program entirely, and ensure minimal dissent from
Sanders supporters.

The networks and cable stations would still carry whatever speeches Mr.
Biden's advisers plan and there would be no live audience to interrupt
the proceedings.

For most of his campaign Mr. Sanders largely stuck to his familiar
message, battling establishment forces rather than his immediate rivals.
Amid a slump in the polls in the fall, he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/us/politics/bernie-sanders-hospital.html}{suffered
a heart attack} while campaigning in Las Vegas, a startling event that
threatened to upend his bid.

But in a remarkable turn of events --- as he stood on the debate stage
just two weeks after his heart attack ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/19/us/politics/bernie-sanders-aoc-queensbridge-park.html}{he
received the endorsement} of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of
New York, one of the most visible liberal congresswomen and a star of
the left. It helped jump-start his candidacy just as it appeared in
jeopardy of collapsing.

The endorsement helped carry him through the late fall and early winter,
and in January, as the first voting approached, Mr. Sanders was surging.
When he dominated the field in the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/02/22/us/elections/results-nevada-caucus.html}{Nevada}
caucuses in February there was suddenly talk that he might run away with
the nomination.

But his loss in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/02/29/us/elections/results-south-carolina-primary-election.html}{South
Carolina} to Mr. Biden, who had emerged as the leading moderate in the
race, brought his momentum to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/29/us/politics/joe-biden-south-carolina-primary.html}{an
abrupt halt}.

Glenn Thrush, Alexander Burns, Jonathan Martin and Reid J. Epstein
contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
