Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Governors Say Trump's Order
on Pandemic Relief Could Wreck State Budgets

\url{https://nyti.ms/33KQadV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df54e6e0-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df54e6e1-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df550df0-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df550df1-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df550df2-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=df550df3-e37a-11ea-9d29-b1d4cf4b3021}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{governors-say-trumps-order-on-pandemic-relief-could-wreck-state-budgets}{%
\section{Governors Say Trump's Order on Pandemic Relief Could Wreck
State
Budgets}\label{governors-say-trumps-order-on-pandemic-relief-could-wreck-state-budgets}}

With Congress at an impasse on stimulus talks, disarray over resuming
negotiations bodes poorly for reaching a deal this week.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/10/us/politics/10dc-virus-cong1/merlin_175531242_ea1dd39b-b56e-453f-b334-2c52632549ef-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah
Mervosh} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan
Rappeport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Governors across the United States struggled on Monday
with how to make good on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/08/us/politics/trump-stimulus-bill-coronavirus.html}{President
Trump's order} that their economically battered states deliver billions
more in unemployment benefits to jobless residents.

Democrats were harshly critical of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/10/business/economy/trump-payroll-tax-holiday.html}{Mr.
Trump's order}, which he signed on Saturday night after talks with
Congress on a broad new pandemic aid package collapsed. But even
Republican governors said the order could put a serious strain on their
budgets and worried it would take weeks for tens of millions of
unemployed Americans to begin seeing the benefit.

Congress initially provided a \$600-a-week supplement to unemployment
benefits when the coronavirus pandemic shut down much of the United
States in March. But that benefit lapsed on July 31, after talks between
the White House and Congress broke down. Republicans had pushed for a
\$400 supplemental benefit, Democrats said it was not enough, and so on
Saturday Mr. Trump ordered the \$400 benefit --- but said it was
contingent on states to come up with \$100 of that on their own.

Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York told reporters on Monday that Mr.
Trump's directive would cost his state about \$4 billion by the end of
the year, making it little more than a fantasy. He said that no New
Yorker would see enhanced unemployment benefits because of the
president.

``This only makes a bad situation worse,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ``When you
are in a hole, stop digging. This executive order only digs the hole
deeper.''

His comments were echoed by Gov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky, a Democrat
like Mr. Cuomo, who said Mr. Trump's order would cost his state \$1.5
billion through the end of the year.

``It's not workable in its current form,'' Mr. Beshear said. ``It's
something virtually no state can afford.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/10/us/politics/10dc-virus-cong3/merlin_172404513_79261b5e-ed8b-48ed-a42b-ebc959f92ea2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Republicans largely praised the president for trying to act where
Congress's dysfunction had failed, but they said they would need to pull
funds from other pressing budgetary needs.

Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican, said it was possible to
comply with Mr. Trump's executive order, but he would have to reallocate
money from another portion of the budget.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T06:38:45.634Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``We could do it,'' Mr. Hutchinson said in an interview. ``It would be a
readjustment of priorities and take some time.'' He added, ``That's not
ideal.''

Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia, a Republican and an ally of Mr. Trump, said
his staff was still working through what to do about unemployment
benefits. ``We're digging in on that issue,'' he said.

And Gov. Jim Justice of West Virginia, a Republican, said the order
would cost his state \$26 million a week.

``The question of whether or not West Virginia will be able to pay that,
whether or not West Virginia will willingly pay that, I would tell you
hands down, period --- period --- we're going to pay that,'' Mr. Justice
said during a news conference. ``We cannot let our people that are
sitting out there with no job wondering what in the world they are going
to do, sit out there and wilt on the vine.''

Still, Mr. Justice said he remained hopeful that the federal government
would decide to cover the whole cost of the program, and that lawmakers
would strike a deal. ``We hope Congress will quit being a bunch of
political babies,'' he said.

In the meantime, Mr. Trump appeared to be making cascading changes to
the policy on the fly, with the result that some unemployed people could
receive only a \$300 supplemental benefit per week. Officials in the
office of Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, a Republican, said they were told
late Sunday by the Labor Department that there was a new option that
allowing unemployed workers to claim the additional \$300 per week
without the state kicking in an extra \$100.

Mr. DeWine opted to just take the federal money. ``It's a lot quicker to
implement and get the benefits to Ohioans at no additional cost to the
state,'' said Dan Tierney, a spokesman for Mr. DeWine.

Several other states confirmed on Monday that they had received the same
option from the Labor Department, although how many would actually get
it remained an open question on Monday evening, when Mr. Trump told
reporters that he would waive the 25 percent match in certain cases.

``We just had a meeting with the governors, and they were very anxious
to get money for the people in their states,'' Mr. Trump said at a White
House briefing. ``We can terminate the 25 percent, or we don't have to
do that. So we will see what it is --- depends on the individual state
--- but a lot of money will be going to a lot of people very quickly.''

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who was with the president at the
briefing, said the benefit would begin to go out to unemployed workers
within the next week or two. But it was also unclear how long that
federal benefit would last, with some experts estimating it would be
just a few weeks because the administration could direct only existing
funding.

As the governors wrestled with Mr. Trump's order, talks on a
congressional aid package remained at a standstill. Several House and
Senate members have scattered across the country unless they are called
back to vote on an agreement. They spent the day trading barbs over who
was to blame for the logjam.

In an interview with CNBC on Monday, Mr. Mnuchin, who has been
negotiating for the Trump administration, declined to comment on
specifics but said that the White House remained ready to make a deal.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

He urged Democrats to consider a limited package focused on areas of
agreement such as funding for schools --- an entreaty Democrats have
repeatedly rejected, arguing that the toll of the pandemic warrants a
sweeping, broad package and urging Republicans to consider more than
doubling their \$1 trillion proposal.

``There's a deal to do if the Democrats are reasonable and want to
compromise,'' Mr. Mnuchin said. ``If their attitude is we'd rather give
you nothing than agree on things, then we're not going to get a deal.''

Image

Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Monday. Democrats have been harshly critical of
Mr. Trump's order, which he signed on Saturday.Credit...Anna Moneymaker
for The New York Times

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, told reporters
on Monday that progress was incumbent on administration officials
deciding ``to change and meet us in the middle'' and ``not say it's
their way or no way.''

``The Democratic position is that we want to devote enough resources to
defeat the virus and see the American people through this crisis,'' Mr.
Schumer said in a speech on the Senate floor.

Republicans, who face stark divisions within their own conference over
the scope of another relief package, accused Democrats of prioritizing
longstanding political goals over reaching a compromise for aid.

``They think they have political leverage over the president of the
United States, and so they're willing to personally increase the pain
for vulnerable families unless they get their way on matters not related
to Covid-19,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader,
said on the Senate floor Monday afternoon. ``Democrats said, `Our way or
the highway.'''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/economy/unemployment-claims.html}{Unemployment
remains stubbornly high}, even after states lifted restrictions and
allowed stores, restaurants and other industries to reopen. The
government reported last week that nearly 1.2 million workers had filed
new claims for state unemployment benefits, the lowest weekly total
since March, but still high by historical standards. Economists estimate
that about 30 million people are still collecting unemployment.

Even before Mr. Trump's actions on Saturday, several state and local
governments, reeling from lost tax revenue as a result of the
pandemic-induced economic collapse, were already lobbying Congress to
allocate billions more in relief. A \$2.2 trillion
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-coronavirus.html}{stimulus}
law approved in March set aside a \$150 billion pot of money for state
and local governments, but the funds came with cumbersome restrictions
and prevented municipalities with less than 500,000 people from directly
receiving relief.

State tax revenue was down more than 20 percent in May from a year
earlier, according to
\href{https://www.urban.org/sites/default/files/2020/07/01/monthlystrh_may2020.pdf}{data
from 46 states} compiled by Lucy Dadayan, a researcher at the Urban
Institute. She estimated revenues could fall by \$200 billion in the
2020 and 2021 fiscal years. State and local governments have already cut
more than 1 million jobs during the crisis, and many economists fear
more layoffs if the federal government does not provide billions in aid.

In the \$3.4 trillion legislation that House Democrats approved in May,
lawmakers allocated close to \$1 trillion for state, local and tribal
governments, and top Democrats have continued to hold firm in their
insistence that those governments need substantial relief. Some
lawmakers have coalesced around a bipartisan proposal that would provide
\$500 billion in new relief, in addition to loosening flexibility on how
the previously allocated money is spent.

But Republicans, arguing that much of that money had not yet been spent,
did not include any new aid for states in their own \$1 trillion
proposal, with some local governments reporting a delay in getting
relief from their state governments. The Treasury Department's inspector
general's office reported in late July that states had spent only about
one-quarter of the aid provided, but some state officials and experts
said the report did not account for money that was already earmarked for
spending.

Mr. Trump, who has largely sidelined himself during talks on Capitol
Hill, asserted that Democrats were ready to make a deal and touted a
rise in the stock market on Monday. He also called for cutting capital
gains taxes and more unspecified tax cuts for the middle class.

Ben Casselman and Tiffany Hsu contributed reporting from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
