Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Ending Crisis,
Israel Swears in Netanyahu-Led Government to Rescue Economy

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fYJn44}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ending-crisis-israel-swears-in-netanyahu-led-government-to-rescue-economy}{%
\section{Ending Crisis, Israel Swears in Netanyahu-Led Government to
Rescue
Economy}\label{ending-crisis-israel-swears-in-netanyahu-led-government-to-rescue-economy}}

A unity government with Benny Gantz, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's
former rival, will brace for a second wave of the coronavirus while
restoring ``jobs, jobs, jobs,'' Mr. Netanyahu promises.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/17/world/17israel01/merlin_172579761_b559a937-1fa8-4aa2-b335-c97add0b23de-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-m-halbfinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/10/multimedia/author-david-m-halbfinger/author-david-m-halbfinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-m-halbfinger}{David M.
Halbfinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- Ending a 510-day political crisis that three elections had
failed to resolve, Israel on Sunday swore in a new government charged
with responding to the coronavirus pandemic, extending Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu's record-setting tenure just a week before his
corruption trial is set to begin.

Mr. Netanyahu, 70, has joined forces with his erstwhile challenger, the
centrist former army chief Benny Gantz, 60, who now holds the new title
of ``alternate prime minister,'' a veto over most major decisions,
control over half the government's ministries and an agreement to switch
positions with Mr. Netanyahu on Nov. 17, 2021.

But by keeping Mr. Netanyahu in office, even as he faces prosecution on
bribery, fraud and breach of trust charges over his dealings with
several wealthy media executives, the new ruling coalition may represent
a crowning political achievement for Israel's longest-serving leader.

Only two and a half years ago, Mr. Netanyahu's closest allies had ruled
out the possibility that he could continue in office if he were
indicted. Only two and a half months ago, a clear majority of Israeli
voters had elected lawmakers promising to usher Mr. Netanyahu into the
political afterlife.

Yet in a matter of weeks, Mr. Netanyahu reduced those adversaries to
political footnotes.

Mr. Gantz's large Blue and White party broke apart over his decision to
join Mr. Netanyahu, the once-dominant Labor party was reduced to two
lonely seats in Parliament, and Arab lawmakers who had sensed the
opportunity to wield greater influence than ever over Israeli public
life found themselves once again on the margins.

Mr. Gantz's acceptance of an I.O.U. from Mr. Netanyahu could prove
misguided: Few analysts say they believe that their agreement will
survive long enough for Mr. Gantz to take his turn as prime minister.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/17/world/17israel02/merlin_172580637_57fde6b1-584d-475d-a447-8d2491909ae6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The opposition, for its part, now lacks coherence. The center-left
parties that had put their hopes in Mr. Gantz were joined by Yamina, the
right-wing party led by Naftali Bennett, a former defense minister who
balked at joining Mr. Netanyahu's coalition when he refused Yamina's
demands for ministerial portfolios.

Israel's long political stalemate, dating from December 2018, had kept
the government in limbo, unable to pass major legislation or to enact a
new spending plan reflecting changing national priorities.

In an inaugural speech in Parliament hours before his formal
swearing-in, Mr. Netanyahu promised to deliver a new budget ``that will
prevent the economy from collapsing, that will guarantee stability, that
will restore growth --- a budget that will give you, citizens of Israel,
hope, and a horizon, by restoring three things: Jobs, jobs, jobs.''

More than a million Israelis have lost their jobs since the pandemic
forced most workplaces to shut down, and though schools and many
employers have begun to reopen, the economy is far from back to normal.

The country's aggressive measures worked to contain the virus, however:
Israel's death rate from Covid-19 is 31 people per million, a small
fraction of the fatality rates in the United States and hard-hit
countries like Britain, Italy and Spain.

While Mr. Netanyahu took credit for Israel's coming through the pandemic
relatively unscathed so far, he said he and Mr. Gantz would establish a
``corona cabinet'' to get ready for an expected second wave.

Image

A market in Tel Aviv. Mr. Netanyahu said he and Mr. Gantz would
establish a ``corona cabinet'' to get ready for an expected second wave
of infections.Credit...Dan Balilty for The New York Times

In one respect, at least, the new government is off to a running start
in creating jobs.

To induce party leaders to join the coalition, the Netanyahu-Gantz
government has ballooned in size. It has increased the number of
ministers and dangled other plums, adding more than \$225 million in
yearly costs, said Yohanan Plesner, president of the nonpartisan Israel
Democracy Institute. (Mr. Netanyahu put the added expense at only \$24
million, and said this was far less than the \$500 million or more a
fourth election would have cost the Israeli economy.)

Mr. Gantz, who has been denounced as a turncoat by many of the
center-left lawmakers who tried to help him oust Mr. Netanyahu, spoke
defensively of his decision to join the coalition in his own
parliamentary address. He said it was no time ``to remain blindly
attached to what were yesterday's hopes and aspirations.''

The inconclusive elections had left Israel's leaders with a clear choice
between unity and ``civil war,'' Mr. Gantz said, adding: ``The people
said to us: Stop fighting amongst yourselves and get to work for us.''

The fighting did not cease on Sunday, however. Both Mr. Gantz and Mr.
Netanyahu were repeatedly interrupted by angry shouts from the
opposition.

Mr. Netanyahu drew the loudest cries of protest when he repeated his vow
to annex territory in the occupied West Bank that the Palestinians have
counted on for a future state. The coalition agreement with Mr. Gantz
allows Mr. Netanyahu to pursue annexation, if the United States approves
it, any time after July 1.

Image

Israeli soldiers standing guard at a protest against Israeli settlements
in the West Bank. The coalition agreement with Mr. Gantz allows Mr.
Netanyahu to pursue annexation, if the United States approves it, any
time after July 1.Credit...Majdi Mohammed/Associated Press

``These areas of the country were the places of the birth and the growth
of the Jewish nation,'' Mr. Netanyahu said of the West Bank, as shouts
of ``apartheid'' could be heard from opponents of annexation. ``And it
is time to apply Israeli law and to write a glorious new chapter in the
history of Zionism.''

Annexation of West Bank territory is the one issue on which Mr. Gantz,
who as a candidate said he opposed such a unilateral move, did not
obtain a veto. Mr. Netanyahu must consult with him but can proceed
without his approval.

The new opposition leader, Yair Lapid, bitterly denounced both Mr.
Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz, his former partner in Blue and White, saying
Mr. Gantz had ``surrendered'' to someone undeserving of his trust. ``In
the real world, you don't let your children play with a man like that,''
Mr. Lapid said. ``In this building, he's the prime minister.''

Even as Mr. Gantz and Mr. Netanyahu spoke of unity and healing, analysts
warned that the new government's two-headed structure could substitute
one form of stalemate for another.

Karine Nahon, a professor and politics expert at the Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya, said the new coalition's size and breadth gave it
stability, in that it would not be vulnerable to being toppled if one or
two lawmakers threatened to quit.

But Ms. Nahon said that the veto power Mr. Gantz and Mr. Netanyahu held
over each other could render it ineffectual.

``If we're talking about the judicial system, about checks and balances,
about the role of the media --- on every topic, they are coming from two
opposite ideological stances,'' she said. ``The government's supposed to
meet different goals, but what are the goals?''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
