Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}A Trillion Trees: How One Idea
Triumphed Over Trump's Climate Denialism

\url{https://nyti.ms/39tEpYO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-trillion-trees-how-one-idea-triumphed-over-trumps-climate-denialism}{%
\section{A Trillion Trees: How One Idea Triumphed Over Trump's Climate
Denialism}\label{a-trillion-trees-how-one-idea-triumphed-over-trumps-climate-denialism}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/12/science/12cli-trees01/merlin_167511954_8d1fa2c8-0e41-490b-b620-9bbfee863d0f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- People warned Marc Benioff, the billionaire chief
executive of Salesforce, not to bother talking to the White House about
global warming. But Mr. Benioff, a tech mogul and environmental
philanthropist, felt sure he had found a climate change solution that
even President Trump could love: Planting trees.

Never mind that the idea came from former Vice President Al Gore, who
has demanded Mr. Trump's resignation over his energy policies. Never
mind that Mr. Trump has begun the yearlong process of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/climate/trump-paris-agreement-climate.html}{withdrawing
America from the Paris Agreement} on climate change,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/12/us/politics/greta-thunberg-trump.html}{mocked
Greta Thunberg, the teenage} climate activist, and worked to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html}{eliminate
every regulation} aimed at reducing planet-warming emissions.

The idea of planting one trillion trees had one enormous political
advantage: It was practically sacrifice-free, no war on coal, no
transition from fossil fuels, no energy conservation or investment in
renewable sources of power that Mr. Trump loves to mock, like
\href{https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2019/apr/08/donald-trump/republicans-dismiss-trumps-windmill-and-cancer-cla/}{the
windmills that cause cancer} or
\href{https://www.newsweek.com/donald-trump-criticizes-solar-power-windmills-turn-television-1370707}{the
solar panels that are not ``strong enough.''}

``I just knew this is a really good idea. I said I will pitch it and see
what happens,'' Mr. Benioff said. ``Even my chief of staff said to me,
`You're not going.'''

How the trillion trees initiative migrated from Mr. Benioff's PowerPoint
presentations to the president's pronouncements, first at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/21/business/trump-davos.html}{World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland}, last month, then his State of the
Union address last week, is a study in ad hoc policymaking at the Trump
White House. A personal appeal from a celebrity voice got the idea past
traditional gatekeepers. A back channel through Jared Kushner, the
president's son-in-law, gave it life, and a re-election campaign that
has sought to soften some of Mr. Trump's sharper edges ensured its
publicity.

It is far from clear that the United States government will actually
plant any trees, or that a trillion trees would do much in the near term
to stop the worst effects of planetary warming.
\href{https://usys.ethz.ch/en/people/profile.tom-crowther.html}{Tom
Crowther}, an environmental scientist and an author of the study that
sparked the movement, cautioned that the full benefits would not be seen
for about 100 years, when most of the new trees would reach full
maturity. During that time, he said, the world needs to drive down
fossil fuel emissions.

``If tree planting is just used as an excuse to avoid cutting greenhouse
gas emissions or to further limit environmental protection, then it
could be a real disaster,'' said Dr. Crowther, who studies ecosystem
ecology at ETH Zurich.

But such details might be beside the point for a White House initiative
that is heavier on politics than science. One senior administration
official described the tree initiative as one the president believes
will ``bring people together.''

``We're committed to conserving the majesty of God's creation and the
natural beauty of our world,'' Mr. Trump told investors and world
leaders in Davos.

Despite his longstanding
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/28/climate/trump-administration-war-on-science.html}{antagonism
toward climate science}, Mr. Trump in recent months has struck a softer
tone on the topic. In a meeting with President Emmanuel Macron of France
in December, he said climate change was
``\href{https://twitter.com/atrupar/status/1201897601509023745}{very
important}'' to him. He recently
\href{https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/477548-trump-says-nothings-a-hoax-about-climate-change}{denied}
the undeniable fact that he ever declared global warming a
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/427226424987385856?s=20}{hoax}.

He even said he was reading a book on the topic. (The book, according to
the White House, was, ``Donald J. Trump: An Environmental Hero'' by Ed
Russo, a former consultant to the president).

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/12/science/12cli-trees02/12cli-trees02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The president's commitment to a global effort to plant one trillion
trees by 2030 surprised even White House officials who work on
environment policy. Mr. Trump never uttered the phrase ``climate
change'' in his pledge. He described it instead as a plan
``\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-state-union-address-3/}{to
protect the environment}.''

Yet the science behind it is centered on planetary warming. As trees
grow, they absorb the carbon dioxide emissions that drive climate
change. According to
\href{https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2019/07/190704191350.htm}{researchers
at ETH Zurich}, worldwide reforestation with 1.2 trillion trees could
reduce atmospheric carbon in the atmosphere by about 25 percent.

And with polls showing many young Republicans
\href{https://www.pewresearch.org/science/2019/11/25/u-s-public-views-on-climate-and-energy/?utm_source=adaptivemailer\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=19-11-25\%20climate\&org=982\&lvl=100\&ite=5010\&lea=1139465\&ctr=0\&par=1\&trk=}{breaking
with their party on climate change}, political strategists described the
initiative as part of an effort to steer Mr. Trump toward more
environmentally friendly messaging without abandoning the development of
more planet-warming fossil fuel energy.

``It's obvious the president's team understands this is a weakness for
him right now given the rhetoric he's used, the dismissal of climate
science and all of the executive actions that are consistent with that
rhetoric,'' said Carlos Curbelo, a former Republican congressman from
Florida who championed a carbon tax when he was in office.

The shift is happening across the Republican Party, which has inched
over decades from denying the existence of climate change to saying it
was part of a natural cycle to dismissing it as unstoppable to
considering modest policy responses. On Wednesday, House Republicans
introduced a package of climate change legislation that would fund the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/climate/carbon-capture-tax.html}{capture
and storage of carbon dioxide emissions} from fossil fuel plants,
research new ways to use and commercialize the captured carbon, and
conserve the environment by, for instance, planting trees.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-lead-in-wisconsin-and-widening-his-advantage-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 2:31 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#polls-show-biden-maintaining-a-narrow-lead-in-wisconsin-and-widening-his-advantage-in-pennsylvania}{Polls
show Biden maintaining a narrow lead in Wisconsin and widening his
advantage in
Pennsylvania.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 2:07 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#trumps-campaign-was-badly-outraised-by-biden-and-the-democrats-last-month}{Trump's
campaign was badly outraised by Biden and the Democrats last
month.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 1:15 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-new-poll-shows-most-voters-think-trump-did-a-bad-job-on-the-virus-and-doubt-he-can-help-the-country-recover}{A
new poll shows most voters think Trump did a bad job on the virus and
doubt he can help the country recover.}

``Trees aren't the only solution to addressing the climate issue, but
I'll say they are by far one of the best solutions,'' said
Representative Bruce Westerman, an Arkansas Republican who is developing
legislation to bring the United States into the trillion tree plan.

``It's a big goal to plant a trillion trees globally, but I think the
world needs a big solution,'' Mr. Westerman, a Yale-educated engineer
and forester, said.

It remains unclear what the Trump administration is committing to do in
joining the \href{https://www.1t.org/}{trillion tree plan}. While one
senior administration official said this week that the White House was
busy preparing a tree-planting target, another noted that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/president-trump-budget-cuts.html}{\$4.8
trillion budget} issued Tuesday did not mention the plan.

This is not the first time a back channel has been used to let a big
name promote the climate cause. During Mr. Trump's presidential
transition,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/05/us/politics/climate-change-trump-al-gore.html}{Mr.
Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, brought Mr. Gore and Leonardo
DiCaprio} to Trump Tower to press for action on climate change --- to no
avail.

Those who deny the established science of climate change are confident
Mr. Trump's heart is with them. They point to another part of his speech
in Davos, in which he railed against the ``prophets of doom'' who warn
of climate catastrophes.

``Donald Trump is as militant against the climate hysteria as ever,''
said Steven J. Milloy, a member of Mr. Trump's transition team who runs
a website promoting the false theories that climate change alternately
isn't real or harmful.

Mr. Benioff, in a telephone interview, said he decided to take a chance
anyway. Mr. Gore had bent his ear last summer about emerging research
into reforestation and climate change. After discussions with scientists
at the Benioff Ocean Initiative, a program at the University of
California, Santa Barbara, he was hooked.

``I realized this looks like a practical, actionable thing,'' he said.

He discussed it with other scientists, such as Jane Goodall, the English
primatologist, as well as financiers, hoping to rally governments and
companies around the initiative at the World Economic Forum.

Mr. Benioff has known Mr. Kushner since before Mr. Trump took office and
has worked with Ivanka Trump on issues like job training. He traveled to
Washington to discuss the tree initiative with Mr. Kushner in October.

``People think something that's actually not true, which is that they're
not interested in hearing new ideas or hearing science,'' Mr. Benioff
said of the Trump administration.

``Trees are the ultimate bipartisan issue,'' he added. ``Everyone is
pro-tree.''

Mr. Gore applauded Mr. Benioff for getting the issue on President
Trump's radar. ``I would not have expected him to have any success on
that,'' he said in an interview.

But he was skeptical. ``I don't have any trust in the Trump
administration's approach to climate because no one can be deemed as
serious on the climate crisis unless they're in favor of emission
reductions,'' he said.

Dr. Crowther was more optimistic. Speaking from a camper in the Moroccan
desert where he half-joked he had gone to escape the attention his work
has spurred, he said, ``If restoration can be socially and ecologically
responsible, I think it poses a really exciting opportunity for
bipartisan leadership.''

Mr. Curbelo, the rare Republican politician who has embraced a
politically difficult response to climate change, conceded that tree
planting and carbon capture programs were modest at best, and both
parties would need to negotiate ambitious emissions cuts.

``However,'' he added, ``that was impossible when Republicans weren't
even at the table.''

\emph{For more climate news sign up for}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{the
Climate Fwd: newsletter}} \emph{or follow}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{\emph{@NYTClimate on
Twitter}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
