Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/africa}{Africa}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/africa}{Africa}\textbar{}Tanzania's President Says
Country Is Virus Free. Others Warn of Disaster

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Du2EeR}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tanzanias-president-says-country-is-virus-free-others-warn-of-disaster}{%
\section{Tanzania's President Says Country Is Virus Free. Others Warn of
Disaster}\label{tanzanias-president-says-country-is-virus-free-others-warn-of-disaster}}

Tanzania hasn't reported a single coronavirus case in three months, even
as the African continent is expected this week to cross the threshold of
one million reported cases.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/world/00tanzania/merlin_165717999_b16af1c8-0893-4dad-8b69-6b3cf09e5c7b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/abdi-latif-dahir}{Abdi
Latif Dahir}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NAIROBI, Kenya --- More than
\href{https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200804-covid-19-sitrep-197.pdf?sfvrsn=94f7a01d_2}{88
days have passed} since Tanzania reported even a single new coronavirus
case --- far longer than any other African country. Tanzania's president
has declared the scourge ``absolutely finished'' and encouraged tourists
to come back.

The problem is that, outside of Tanzania, people are skeptical. And
inside Tanzania, few dare stand up to the president, John Magufuli, who
has become increasingly autocratic since he was elected five years ago.

Mr. Magufuli has said that the power of prayer helped purge the virus
from the country, even as the African continent is expected this week to
cross the threshold of one million reported cases.

The Tanzanian president has promoted an unproven herbal tea from
Madagascar as a cure. He has disparaged social distancing and mask
wearing. And his government has not disseminated any recent data to the
World Health Organization. The group last heard from Tanzania on April
29, when the country reported 509 cases and 21 deaths from Covid-19.

Mr. Magufuli stood before government and security officials in the
capital, Dodoma, on July 20 and praised them for restoring safety in the
east African nation of nearly 60 million. ``Our enemies will say a lot,
but here in Tanzania we are safe,'' he said. ``We put God first, and God
heard us.''

Outside of Tanzania, doubt about the conspicuous absence of new cases or
deaths has only been reinforced by Mr. Magufuli's behavior over the past
few months.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/27/world/00tanzania2/merlin_171855366_4f82e01b-a873-461a-ba96-9f31491213eb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In May, the head of Tanzania's national laboratory was dismissed after
Mr. Magufuli
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DbSZd8oyaGE}{questioned the
efficacy of testing kits} supplied by the Africa Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Mr. Magufuli claimed that the kits had returned
positive results on samples secretly taken from a goat and a pawpaw
fruit. The Africa C.D.C. and the W.H.O.
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=3\&v=cwrW2Ksg-6Q\&feature=emb_logo}{both
rebutted} those allegations, saying the tests were reliable.

With limited reporting, critics have
\href{https://medium.com/@actbrief/president-magufuli-must-commit-to-full-transparency-334919f76260}{accused
the government of a cover-up}, especially after videos of
\href{https://twitter.com/fatma_karume/status/1254657286179520517}{night
burials} with attendants
\href{https://twitter.com/ngurumo/status/1255204084182810629}{wearing
protective gear} surfaced online.

Opposition leaders in Parliament demanded testing for all lawmakers
after three died within days of each other in April. The demand went
unheeded, and Parliament is now suspended ahead of the October election.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-05T07:58:24.076Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-762df92}{As
  talks drag on, McConnell signals openness to jobless aid extension,
  and negotiators agree on a deadline.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-794484ed}{Mississippians
  must now wear masks in public, governor says.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In neighboring Kenya, lawmakers have
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K1PeaFeAxGM}{expressed concern}
about Tanzania's handling of the pandemic. The Kenyan authorities denied
entry to dozens of Tanzanian truck drivers who had tested positive at
border points.

In May, the United States Embassy also
\href{https://tz.usembassy.gov/health-alert-u-s-embassy-dar-es-salaam-may-13-2020/}{warned}
of an ``exponential growth'' of infection in Tanzania, saying the risk
of contracting the virus in the commercial port city of Dar es Salaam
was ``extremely high.''

Mr. Magufuli's handling of the coronavirus pandemic ``has been nothing
short of an irresponsible disaster,'' said Tundu Lissu, an opposition
leader who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/07/27/world/africa/ap-af-tanzania-opposition-leader-returns.html}{fled
the country in 2017 but recently returned} to run for president. ``His
attitude has been Covid-19 will somehow go away if we all stop talking
about it.''

Officials in Tanzania say they have enforced internationally recommended
measures, whether dealing with public gatherings or
\href{https://twitter.com/MsigwaGerson/status/1279145467297894403}{arriving
tourists}, and that they continue to work with the W.H.O. and other
countries to curb the spread of the virus.

At the same time, said Hassan Abbas, a government spokesman, the world
should not ``shy away'' from emulating what he called the country's best
practices.

``We have something to teach the rest,'' he said.

The W.H.O. has said it continues to engage Tanzania through its
membership in various technical committees and has advised the country
to scale up surveillance. Negotiations were also underway between the
Ministry of Health and the W.H.O. regarding sharing information, Zabulon
Yoti, the W.H.O. acting Africa director for emergency preparedness and
response, said in a statement.

But the organization has not overtly questioned Tanzania's lack of
reporting. Other international public health officials are far more
blunt in their skepticism.

John Nkengasong, the director of the Africa C.D.C., said he was ``very
worried'' Tanzania had not disclosed any information for months,
hindering the agency's ability to help coordinate and guide the
continent's response in the pandemic.

Image

Truck drivers entering Kenya from Tanzania line up to be tested for the
coronavirus, in June.Credit...Brian Inganga/Associated Press

``The best way to deal with this is good information, good data and good
science,'' Dr. Nkengasong said, adding that governments like Tanzania's
should be cognizant ``that any infection anywhere will be infections
everywhere in Africa.''

``None of our countries is an island,'' he said.

Mr. Magufuli rose to power in 2015 on an anti-corruption platform,
promising to deal with the graft that had plagued the nation for years.
A former lawmaker and cabinet minister, he gained the nickname ``The
Bulldozer'' while serving at the ministry of works.

After assuming office as president, he purged the public payroll of
so-called ghost workers --- fictitious employees created for dishonest
purposes. He channeled funds intended for national celebrations to
health operations and began holding public officials and contractors
accountable by paying them
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lDfz7s2HDQ}{surprise visits}.

He also undertook efforts to revive the national airline and cut foreign
travel budgets for civil servants. When farmers complained that big
corporate buyers were offering low prices for cashews, a major export in
Tanzania, the president
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-46180098}{sent in the army}
to buy the cashews at a higher price.

But these popular efforts did not last long. His administration soon
began to \href{https://cpj.org/africa/tanzania/}{crack down on the
media}, ban the collection of statistics and data without government
approval and pass laws that
\href{https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2019/06/tanzania-authorities-rushing-to-pass-bill-to-further-repress-human-rights/}{placed
restrictions} on human rights organizations.

The moves surprised those who had hoped Mr. Magufuli would change the
country's direction for the better. ``Magufuli looked like a fresh
start,'' said Maria Sarungi Tsehai, director of Kwanza TV, which was
\href{https://cpj.org/2020/07/tanzania-bans-kwanza-online-tv-for-11-months-citing-misleading-instagram-post-on-covid-19/}{suspended}
for 11 months after reporting on a Covid-19 health alert from the United
States Embassy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The
\href{https://www.article19.org/reader/global-expression-report-2018-19/regional-overviews/africa-regional-overview/africa-countries-in-focus/country-in-focus-tanzania/\#_ftnref2}{loss
of freedom of expression} under Mr. Magufuli, she said, meant that many
people ``shudder in terror'' from saying anything against the
government, including about its handling of the pandemic.

Image

John Nkengasong, director of the Africa C.D.C., said that Tanzania's
decision not to disclose its virus information had hindered the agency's
ability to help guide the continent's response to the
pandemic.Credit...Tiksa Negeri/Reuters

Several doctors, health advocacy groups and nongovernmental
organizations in Tanzania declined to comment for this article for fear
of reprisals.

``The only voices left are very few of us,'' Mr. Tsehai said. ``And
that's actually becoming a very scary scenario.''

While Mr. Magufuli endeared himself to supporters early on, critics say
his policies are increasingly undermining the fabric of a nation once
considered a paragon of stability in the region.

Some say his intolerance is a throwback to the nationalistic ways of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/10/15/world/julius-nyerere-of-tanzania-dies-preached-african-socialism-to-the-world.html}{Julius
Nyerere}, Tanzania's founding father and an icon of anti-colonialism in
Africa.

While there are many dissimilarities, ``Magufuli presents his leadership
as a wholesale return to Nyerere,'' said Dan Paget, a politics professor
at the University of Aberdeen in Britain.

His plans to resuscitate the national airline, launch a modern railway
and revive work on a hydroelectric dam first proposed in the 1970s
exemplify that vision, Mr. Paget said.

The president's actions also reflect the behavior of a ruling party that
seeks to stay in power at whatever cost, said Fatma Karume, a rights
lawyer in Dar es Salaam.

The party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi, or Party of the Revolution, has
controlled Tanzania since its creation, in 1977, but its victories at
the polls have been progressively reduced since multiparty politics was
restored in 1992.

``It's centralization of power,'' said Ms. Karume, referring to Mr.
Magufuli's actions. ``Because when you have civil society, you have the
press, you have opposition. Your power is not concentrated,'' she said.

Image

Members of the Chama Cha Mapinduzi party use hand sanitizer and have
their temperatures checked before~the party's national congress earlier
this month.Credit...Associated Press

Health experts warn that Mr. Magufuli's denial around the coronavirus
could be calamitous.

``With no testing data or clinical surveillance information, Tanzania
will be late in detecting and dealing with a potentially delayed
explosion of severe clinical cases,'' said Frank Minja, a Tanzanian
doctor who is an associate professor of radiology and biomedical imaging
at the Yale School of Medicine.

The opposition is hoping to use the government's handling of the
pandemic
\href{https://twitter.com/zittokabwe/status/1259467054014500864}{to
rally voters against} Mr. Magufuli in October. Despite the president's
clampdown on political organizing and what is said about the virus, the
opposition party, Chadema, has registered millions of new members, said
Mr. Lissu, the opposition candidate who fled the country in 2017.

October could be a ``make or break election'' in Tanzania's history,
said Mr. Lissu. ``We stand on the brink of disaster,'' he said. ``But we
are also on the brink of a miracle.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
