Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/theater}{Theater}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/theater}{Theater}\textbar{}Mark Blum, a Familiar Face Off
Broadway, Is Dead at 69

\url{https://nyti.ms/33QyZWg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Those we've lost

\hypertarget{mark-blum-a-familiar-face-off-broadway-is-dead-at-69}{%
\section{Mark Blum, a Familiar Face Off Broadway, Is Dead at
69}\label{mark-blum-a-familiar-face-off-broadway-is-dead-at-69}}

Mr. Blum, who died of coronavirus complications, was also seen on
Broadway; in ``Crocodile Dundee'' and other movies; and on numerous
television shows.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/28/obituaries/28blum-obit1/merlin_11645882_6a0a0efa-8af4-4a15-8ccc-bcd45813600d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/anita-gates}{Anita Gates}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 27, 2020Updated April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This obituary is part of a series about people who have died in
the coronavirus pandemic. Read about others}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/series/people-who-have-died-of-the-coronavirus}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

Mark Blum, an Obie Award-winning New York stage and screen actor whose
roles ranged from highly flawed husbands to overconfident blowhards,
died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 69.

The actor Lee Wilkof, a close family friend, said the cause was
complications of the coronavirus. Mr. Blum also had asthma.

Mr. Blum was an omnipresent figure in the Off Broadway world for
decades, but his biggest moment in the spotlight came in 1989 after he
played a time-traveling 20th-century playwright who befriends Gustav
Mahler, in the Playwrights Horizons production of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/27/theater/albert-innaurato-dead-playwright-who-had-hits-on-broadway-in-70s.html}{Albert
Innaurato's} ``Gus and Al.''

Frank Rich, in his review in The New York Times, referred to Mr. Blum's
``appealing, weary-eyed portrayal'' and saw Al's self-martyrdom as a
form of ``rueful hypersensitivity to the modern world.''

At the Obie ceremony, Mr. Blum was given one of 13 uncategorized Off
Broadway performance awards for that season. His fellow winners included
Nancy Marchand and Fyvush Finkel.

He had a notable Broadway career as well, appearing in nine productions
over three and a half decades. He made his Broadway debut as a
particularly versatile theater professional --- playing an unnamed
Venetian (one of four), understudying two roles and acting as assistant
stage manager in ``The Merchant'' (1977), set in 16th-century Venice and
inspired by a certain Shakespearean classic.

Other Broadway roles included Eddie, the young main character's recently
widowed and debt-ridden father, in Neil Simon's ``Lost in Yonkers''
(1991), with Irene Worth; Spalding Gray's campaign manager in ``Gore
Vidal's The Best Man'' (2000), a role he reprised as a replacement in
the 2012 revival; Leo Herman, a.k.a. Chuckles the Chipmunk, the
detestable host of a children's television show, in ``A Thousand
Clowns'' (2001); and Juror No. 1, the reasonable foreman, in ``Twelve
Angry Men'' (2004).

At his death, he was an acting teacher at HB Studio in New York, where
he headed the yearlong core training program named for Uta Hagen, and a
faculty member at Brooklyn College.

In \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljmH5R2qCjo}{a video for HB},
he reflected on one aspect of the study of acting.

``What is the journey of self-discovery that you begin on that allows
you to join your own curiosity about who you are with your curiosity
about what the human race is --- and how to channel that into the
work?''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/28/obituaries/28blum-obit4/merlin_11402675_8938177a-197e-4c6e-9d82-d3ca76c2edb7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mark Jeffrey Blum was born on May 14, 1950, in Newark, to Morton Joseph
Blum, an insurance executive, and Lorraine Pearl (Fink) Blum.

Growing up in nearby Maplewood, N.J., Mark thought casually about
becoming a lawyer or an engineer; he was also something of a math
prodigy. So when he entered the University of Pennsylvania, it was as a
general liberal arts student with no particular goal. But he soon found
his calling.

``Theater somehow enabled me to bring all the things that mattered into
focus,'' Mr. Blum told
\href{https://timesmachine.nytimes.com/timesmachine/1980/02/01/114019644.pdf?pdf_redirect=true\&ip=0}{The
New York Times in 1980}. There was no formal theater program at Penn,
but the administration helped him shape a curriculum, and he graduated
as a theater major in 1972.

Two years later, he received a master of fine arts degree from the
University of Minnesota in a special program in association with the
Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.

He made his New York stage debut as a post office clerk in a 1976
production of ``The Cherry Orchard'' at a theater on West 23rd Street.

While continuing to work onstage, he made his feature film debut in
``Lovesick'' (1983), Marshall Brickman's romantic comedy about an
unfaithful psychiatrist, and his television series debut as a doctor on
``St. Elsewhere'' in 1984.

He appeared in almost 30 films, including ``Desperately Seeking Susan''
(1985), as a married hot-tub salesman; ``Crocodile Dundee'' (1986); and
``Shattered Glass'' (2003). His most recent, ``The Pleasure of Your
Presence,'' a romantic comedy about a wedding in the Hamptons, has been
completed but not yet scheduled for release.

Over the decades he appeared on dozens of prime-time series --- among
them ``Miami Vice,'' ``Roseanne,'' ``Frasier'' and three shows in the
``Law \& Order'' franchise --- and he remained active into 2020. He
appeared in 30 episodes of the Amazon series ``Mozart in the Jungle'' as
Union Bob, a rules-obsessed symphony orchestra piccolo player. His most
recent roles were on the drama series ``You,'' as a mysterious bookstore
owner and stroke victim; ``Succession'' (2018-19); and ``Billions,'' in
an episode scheduled to air in May.

Image

Mr. Blum and Rosanna Arquette in the 1985 film ``Desperately Seeking
Susan.''Credit...Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios

His final Broadway appearance was in 2013 in
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/18/theater/reviews/the-assembled-parties-at-the-samuel-j-friedman-theater.html}{The
Assembled Parties},'' as Judith Light's combative Upper West Side
husband. His last Off Broadway productions were
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/01/theater/amy-and-the-orphans-review.html}{Amy
and the Orphans}'' (2018), at the Laura Pels Theater, in which he played
an autistic woman's generally oblivious brother; and
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/22/theater/fern-hill-review.html}{Fern
Hill},'' a comic drama about retirement-age baby boomers considering a
commune, at 59E59 Theaters in September.

He is survived by his wife, the actress Janet Zarish; his mother; and
his sister, Nancy Blum Litt.

Mr. Blum always had a special feeling for theater environments beyond
Broadway. When he was appearing in Amy Herzog's ``After the Revolution''
at the Williamstown Theater Festival in Massachusetts in 2010, he
explained \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tGvwH1mJYDg}{in a video
interview} that the place made him feel part of an artistic community
``but also makes you feel enveloped by it in a way that supports you and
elevates you.''

He added, ``It's like a little cushion underneath to prevent us from
crashing to the earth.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina Jos√© Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negr√≥n}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
