Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/americas}{Americas}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/americas}{Americas}\textbar{}Lawmakers `Alarmed' by
Reports U.S. Envoy Told Brazil It Could Help Re-elect Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/30hzKHV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{lawmakers-alarmed-by-reports-us-envoy-told-brazil-it-could-help-re-elect-trump}{%
\section{Lawmakers `Alarmed' by Reports U.S. Envoy Told Brazil It Could
Help Re-elect
Trump}\label{lawmakers-alarmed-by-reports-us-envoy-told-brazil-it-could-help-re-elect-trump}}

The House Foreign Affairs Committee has begun an inquiry into multiple
reports in the Brazilian media that the U.S. ambassador was framing
negotiations over ethanol tariffs in partisan terms.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/world/31brazil/merlin_175082043_1d8c79a7-ecda-45a1-be27-2a6be6ea4144-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ernesto-londono}{Ernesto
Londoño}, Manuela Andreoni and Letícia Casado

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

RIO DE JANEIRO --- Members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee said
Friday they were ``extremely alarmed'' by assertions that the American
ambassador in Brazil had signaled to Brazilian officials they could help
get President Trump re-elected by changing their trade policies.

In a letter sent Friday afternoon, Committee Chairman Eliot L. Engel
demanded that the ambassador, Todd Chapman, produce ``any and all
documents referring or related to any discussions'' he has held with
Brazilian officials in recent weeks about their nation's tariffs on
ethanol, an important agricultural export for Iowa, a potential swing
state in the American presidential election.

The committee's letter was sent in response to reports in the Brazilian
news media this week saying that Mr. Chapman, a career diplomat, made it
clear to Brazilian officials they could bolster Mr. Trump's electoral
chances in Iowa if Brazil lifted its ethanol tariffs.

Eliminating tariffs would give the Trump administration a welcome trade
victory to present to struggling ethanol producers in Iowa, where
the\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/politics/iowa-polls-trump-biden-ernst-greenfield.html}{president
is in a close race with his Democratic rival, Joseph R. Biden Jr.}

The House committee said it was opening an inquiry into the matter.

The State Department said Friday afternoon in an emailed statement that
``allegations suggesting that Ambassador Chapman has asked Brazilians to
support a specific U.S. candidate are false.''

The statement added: ``The United States has long been focused on
reducing tariff barriers and will continue do so.''

\href{https://blogs.oglobo.globo.com/lauro-jardim/post/embaixador-dos-eua-faz-lobby-no-governo-por-etanol-americano.html}{The
O Globo newspaper} published a story on Thursday saying Mr. Chapman had
underscored ``the importance to the Brazilian government of keeping
Donald Trump'' in office. Mr. Bolsonaro, a far-right leader, has made
closer alignment with the Trump administration his top foreign policy
priority.

A competing newspaper, Estadão,
\href{https://economia.estadao.com.br/noticias/geral,embaixador-dos-eua-pede-isencao-para-etanol-americano-mas-governo-diz-que-nao-tem-cabimento,70003381539}{published
an article Friday} saying its reporters independently confirmed that the
ambassador framed his argument against tariffs in partisan terms. The
article said the Brazilian officials who met with Mr. Chapman rejected
the appeal, declining to be drawn into the American presidential battle.

Neither article named its sources. But Alceu Moreira, a Brazilian
congressman who heads the agricultural caucus, told The New York Times
in an interview that Mr. Chapman had made repeated references to the
electoral calendar during a recent meeting the two had about ethanol.

He said that Mr. Chapman did not explicitly urge him to help the Trump
campaign or bring up the contest in Iowa --- but that the American
ambassador did tie the ethanol issue to the election.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/world/31brazil2/merlin_167532981_ef354301-0c68-447c-93b2-e0b8cabb8d5b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``He said, `You know, we have elections in the United States, and that
this is very important,''' Mr. Moreira said, recounting their
conversation. ``He said this four or five times.''

In the letter, Mr. Engel said that if Mr. Chapman had pressured the
Brazilians to help the Trump campaign, it could be a violation of the
Hatch Act, a 1939 law that bars federal officials from engaging in
certain partisan activities.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``These statements are completely inappropriate for a U.S. ambassador to
make,'' Mr. Engel, a Democrat from New York, wrote in the letter, which
was also signed by Representative Albio Sires, who chairs the
Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security and Trade.

The letter called on Mr. Chapman to ``reassure Congress and the American
people that our Ambassador to Brazil is truly representing the interests
of the United States and not the narrow, political interests of
President Trump."

Promoting favorable terms for American industries abroad is a core
priority for American ambassadors. But American diplomats are reminded
in election years to steer clear of any actions that might reasonably be
construed as partisan.

The committee's letter also took issue with Mr. Chapman's defense of
\href{https://twitter.com/BolsonaroSP/status/1287540044677488641?s=20}{a
video} promoting the Trump campaign that Eduardo Bolsonaro, a federal
lawmaker and a son of President Jair Bolsonaro, posted Sunday on
Twitter.

The video ends with a slide that says ``Trump 2020: The Great Victory.''

Asked about the video in
\href{https://oglobo.globo.com/mundo/embaixador-dos-eua-defende-eduardo-bolsonaro-apos-critica-de-deputado-americano-liberdade-de-expressao-24555110}{an
interview with O Globo,} Mr. Chapman said he saw no problem with Eduardo
Bolsonaro's endorsement.

``I'm a big defender of freedom of expression,'' Mr. Chapman told the
newspaper. ``And everyone is free to say who they like and who they're
against as they see fit; I'm not going to tell someone they can't speak
in favor or against my president.''

Image

Eduardo Bolsonaro after a meeting with President Trump at the White
House last year.Credit...Evan Vucci/Associated Press

Mr. Engel and Mr. Sires, a Democrat from New Jersey, said the ambassador
should have responded differently.

``While Mr. Bolsonaro has the right to speak freely, it is simply not
appropriate for sitting government officials --- in any branch of
government --- to promote the campaigns of candidates in the United
States,'' the congressmen wrote. ``We frankly believe that you should
know better.''

Eduardo Bolsonaro is the rare Brazilian official who has openly
supported lowering ethanol tariffs for American sellers.
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/bolsonaro.enb/posts/1250533498472605}{In
a video he posted last September}, he said taking a hit on ethanol would
be a boon for Brazilian exporters of meat and sugar by improving the
chances of a free-trade agreement between the two countries.

``That could bring so many benefits to us as Brazilians,'' said the
younger Mr. Bolsonaro, an ardent supporter of Mr. Trump who wore a
``Make Brazil Great Again'' baseball cap during a visit to the White
House last year.

The United States has long pushed Brazil to lower tariffs on ethanol.
Those talks gained a new sense of urgency in recent months as the
coronavirus pandemic led to plummeting demand, and American ethanol
sellers were squeezed by the trade dispute between Beijing and
Washington.

Currently, American ethanol companies can sell up to 750 million liters
of ethanol to Brazil per year without paying tariffs. Any sales beyond
that are subject to a 20 percent tax. The Brazilian government raised
the tariff-free cap last September from 600 million liters --- a gesture
intended to give Brazilian sugar producers greater access to the
American market.

Mr. Trump hailed that move,
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1168714708691632129}{calling
it}``great progress for our Farmers.''

But Washington did not make good on the sugar access, which left the
Brazilians feeling embittered.

The current ethanol tariff framework is set to expire in August. If the
two countries don't reach a deal, Brazil will apply a 20 percent tax to
all ethanol imports, a blow to an industry that is pleading for
government bailouts.

Mr. Moreira, the Brazilian congressman who heads the agricultural
caucus, said he told Mr. Chapman that Brazilian politicians also had
political considerations to consider, given coming municipal elections
in September. Ethanol producers in Brazil's northeast states would look
dimly on tariff rules that put them at a competitive disadvantage.

``Is the ethanol producer very important electorally speaking? Yes, very
important,'' Mr. Moreira said. ``We very much like the American people,
but we like our people more.''

Congressman Arnaldo Jardim, who leads a Brazilian congressional bloc
that supports ethanol producers, said Mr. Chapman has been negotiating
with a sense of urgency as the deadline approaches.

``Let's just say he's putting pressure'' on Brazilian officials, said
Mr. Jardim, adding that he had not personally met with the ambassador
about this issue, but regularly speaks to several officials who have.
``He's saying that this is paramount for the United States and paramount
for Trump.''

Orlando Ribeiro, who heads the department of commercial and
international relations at Brazil's Ministry of Agriculture, said that
negotiators had hoped to reach a deal on ethanol tariffs before the
August deadline that took into account the interests of all
stakeholders.

Barring that, he said he feared Mr. Trump and Mr. Bolsonaro could hash
out a deal over the phone at the last minute.

``What could happen is that on the eve, Trump could call Bolsonaro and
they might decide to lift all'' tariffs, he said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
