Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}The Oscars Red Carpet: Let's Give
Them Something to Talk About

\href{https://nyti.ms/39pyOCK}{https://nyti.ms/39pyOCK}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-oscars-red-carpet-lets-give-them-something-to-talk-about}{%
\section{The Oscars Red Carpet: Let's Give Them Something to Talk
About}\label{the-oscars-red-carpet-lets-give-them-something-to-talk-about}}

When it came to fashion, it was old Hollywood vs. new. Guess who won.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2020/02/09/style/oscars-red-carpet-2020.html}{}

\hypertarget{the-best-oscars-red-carpet-and-after-parties-photos}{%
\subsection{The Best Oscars Red Carpet and After-Parties
Photos}\label{the-best-oscars-red-carpet-and-after-parties-photos}}

83 Photos

View Slide Show ›

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/13/fashion/09OSCARS-REDCARPET-GOV3/merlin_168714132_5e842645-ab01-4b9a-b6f0-d6b0e87e16a6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Calla Kessler/The New York Times

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vanessa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/vanessa-friedman/vanessa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/vanessa-friedman}{Vanessa Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Old Hollywood --- and the way it is represented by the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and Sciences and its award nominations --- has been under
the microscope for a while now, whether because of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/06/movies/oscarssowhite-history.html}{\#OscarsSoWhite}
or \#MeToo or the lack of recognition of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/12/movies/female-directors-oscars.html}{female
directors} (and the lack of recognition of Jennifer Lopez in
``Hustlers''! Scandal!).

So you have to wonder why so many actors still think dressing à la old
Hollywood is the way to go on the red carpet when it comes to the
biggest night of the award season.

If ever there were a time to throw down the gauntlet and change things
up a bit, the Oscars entrance parade should be it. Especially given the
rapturous reception given to Billy Porter's tuxedo ball gown last year,
and the way it spoke to gender stereotype and the evolving world.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/11/fashion/10oscars-fashion-porter/10oscars-fashion-porter-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As a result, it was hard to see all the Veronica Lake hair and silver
screen-era gowns, the bows and crystals and corsets on Sunday night
outside the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles, no matter how good they
looked, and not think: ``lost opportunity.''

To be fair, the fairy tale princess puffery of years past had gone,
replaced by a more mature, kind of power royalty silhouette --- led
again by Mr. Porter, this year
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/09/fashion/billy-porter-oscars-royal-kensington.html}{a
lone male peacock} in gilded feathers and a voluminous skirt by Giles
Deacon silk-screened with images of Kensington Palace, the London home
of Prince William and Kate Middleton (Mr. Porter seems to be engaged in
an endless game of one-upping himself in the fashion sweepstakes, and
the results are becoming increasingly baroque).

Image

Regina KingCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Image

Charlize TheronCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

So there was Regina King in queenly, peach-toned Versace, overskirt
sweeping majestically behind. Here was Charlize Theron in
off-the-shoulder corseted black Dior, slit thigh-high along one leg,
like some sort of dangerous Marie Antoinette about to seize the throne.
There was Olivia Colman in sapphire velvet Stella McCartney, complete
with train streaming out from her shoulders and --- aeration holes on
her upper arms? It was hard to tell.

In any case, before you could get too worked up wondering, here was Brie
Larson in gleaming (and comfortable looking, despite the 13,000
Swarovski crystals) Celine-with-cape. She could fly herself to the moon.

Image

Renée ZellwegerCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Image

Cynthia ErivoCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Save for some dangling black lampshade tassels on Laura Dern's shell
pink Armani Privé, and what looked like small shrubberies on Sandra Oh's
shoulders courtesy of Elie Saab, the decorative froufrou had been
streamlined. That's a step forward. Bow down.

In case you missed the point, Salma Hayek wore a crown-like laurel leaf
Boucheron necklace curled around her updo, as well as a one-shouldered
white Gucci goddess gown, which turned out to be something of a trend.

The asymmetric white, that is --- seen also on Renée Zellweger in Armani
Privé and Cynthia Erivo in Versace. For contrast, there was also a lot
of black (Penélope Cruz and Margaret Qualley in Chanel; Geena Davis in
Romona Keveza). It was one of the dominant colors of the night --- rare
in an evening where gold to match the statue, or red to match the
runway, often rule.

Image

Natalie PortmanCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Maybe it was a sign? ``Parasite'' just
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/09/movies/parasite-movie-oscars-best-picture.html}{made
history} as the first foreign-language film to win best picture. The red
carpet as we know it is starting to feel like a relic from another time.

Which is why those who strode it with another purpose in mind (besides
simply power posing as effectively as possible) stood out among the
throng. The denouement was in the details.

Natalie Portman, for example, in gold-embroidered Dior gown and a long
black cape --- edged in gold embroidery with the names of the female
directors who hadn't been nominated.

Spike Lee, longtime basketball superfan, in a purple-and-gold Gucci
suit, with the number ``24'' on the lapels as well as on the back, in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/28/sports/basketball/kobe-bryant-death.html}{honor
of Kobe Bryant}. Along with his appearance at last year's Oscars in a
different purple suit --- and shirt --- in honor of Prince, this
solidified his status as a man who understands how to bend the red
carpet circus to his own ends.

Image

Spike LeeCredit...Josh Haner/The New York Times

Margot Robbie, in mid-1990s vintage couture Chanel --- one among a small
contingent approaching the evening with sustainability in mind. Reduce,
reuse, recycle!

That included Saoirse Ronan, whose peplum-sprouting Gucci included
off-cuts from the dress she wore earlier this month to the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/02/arts/bafta-winners-2020.html?searchResultPosition=1}{EE
British Academy Film Awards}, otherwise known as the BAFTAs; Jane Fonda,
who made a vow not to buy any more clothes last year when she began her
Friday climate protests, shopped her closet for a 2013 Elie Saab gown
she last wore at the Cannes Film Festival in 2014; Kaitlyn Dever, whose
red strapless satin, she announced to E!, was ``a completely sustainable
dress made by Louis Vuitton.'' (The brand notes said it was ``an ethical
and eco-responsible custom-made gown,'' which is not exactly specific,
but let's take Vuitton's word for it for the moment.)

Image

Saoirse Ronan in Gucci.Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Image

Timothée Chalamet in Prada.Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Also Timothée Chalamet, whose somewhat confusing Prada zip-up satin
garage mechanic's suit at first seemed pointlessly different and kind of
blah --- oh, sparkling harness of times past, we missed you! --- but
then turned out to be an example of the brand's
\href{https://www.pradagroup.com/en/sustainability/environment-csr/prada-re-nylon.html}{Re-nylon}
project, made from regenerated nylon that can be ``recycled
indefinitely,'' according to the company.

Along with Billie Eilish, once again
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/27/fashion/billie-eilish-grammys.html}{rejecting
the body-judging gaze} in head-to-toe enveloping bouclé Chanel jacket
and baggy pants, these choices marked a change in the weather. Forget
old Hollywood; this is new Hollywood. Not in terms of generation, but
approach.

Image

Janelle MonáeCredit...Josh Haner/The New York Times

It meant when the dreaded question ``What are you wearing?'' came, the
answer could be about something more than marketing.

Janelle Monáe, in silver crystal-covered, hooded Ralph Lauren, had the
best dress. She looked like the ruler of an entire galaxy. (Later she
used her
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/09/movies/oscars-opening-act-janelle-monae.html}{opening
performance} as a platform to showcase diversity and female artists.)
But in the end, Ms. Portman, Mr. Lee and Co. had the best looks. Let's
give them something to talk about.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
