Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Obama's Call to Abolish Filibuster
Puts Further Spotlight on the Tactic

\url{https://nyti.ms/30cg1ZW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{obamas-call-to-abolish-filibuster-puts-further-spotlight-on-the-tactic}{%
\section{Obama's Call to Abolish Filibuster Puts Further Spotlight on
the
Tactic}\label{obamas-call-to-abolish-filibuster-puts-further-spotlight-on-the-tactic}}

In the middle of the election season, Democrats hopeful of capturing the
White House and Congress intensify their talk of ending the filibuster
to thwart Republican opposition.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/us/politics/30dc-filibuster/merlin_175121256_1a0bef11-3f33-45c5-9a2c-685850d0426f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/carl-hulse}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-carl-hulse/author-carl-hulse-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/carl-hulse}{Carl Hulse}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Former President Barack Obama called on Thursday for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/john-lewis-funeral-barack-obama.html}{eliminating
the filibuster}, joining a growing chorus of Democrats who portray the
Senate's signature procedural weapon as an obstacle to social progress
that must be abolished if the party captures the Senate and White House.

The appeal by Mr. Obama to do away with a tactic that Senate Republicans
used to thwart him and the Democratic agenda for much of his eight years
in office came during his eulogy in Atlanta for Representative John
Lewis, the civil rights icon. The former president seized the moment to
cast the filibuster as a vestige of a grim period in the United States
when Southern lawmakers used it to impede voting rights and other
advances for African-Americans.

``Once we pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, we should keep
marching,'' Mr. Obama said, referring to legislation Democrats are
pushing on Capitol Hill in the face of opposition from Republicans.
``And if all this takes eliminating the filibuster --- another Jim Crow
relic --- in order to secure the God-given rights of every American,
then that's what we should do.''

His comments came as Democrats increasingly hope that their party can
elect former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to the presidency and
win enough seats to knock Republicans out of the Senate majority, giving
Democrats the White House and control of both chambers in Congress.

But even the most optimistic projections would leave Democrats well
short of the 60-vote supermajority required in the Senate to break
filibusters blocking legislation. That prospect has some Democrats
worried that they will prevail in November only to see their legislative
initiatives succumb to filibusters led by Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the Republican leader, come January.

As a result, some liberal senators have joined progressive groups in
pushing Democrats to promise they would gut the filibuster, which has
impeded Democratic initiatives on gun safety, immigration and health
care, to name a few. Mr. Obama's plea on Thursday is likely to lend new
energy to that drive and elevate the fate of the filibuster in Senate
contests around the country.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``President Obama is absolutely right,'' said Senator Bernie Sanders,
independent of Vermont and a former Democratic presidential candidate.
He said ending the ability to filibuster would allow Democrats to ``pass
a comprehensive agenda to guarantee the rights and dignity of everyone
in this country.''

Top Democrats have been reluctant to embrace the call to blow up the
filibuster, fearing it could backfire whenever Republicans returned to
power. In 2013, Democrats exasperated at Republican success in blocking
Mr. Obama's judicial nominees
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/22/us/politics/reid-sets-in-motion-steps-to-limit-use-of-filibuster.html}{lowered
the threshold for advancing presidential nominees} to a majority, a
change that allowed President Trump and Mr. McConnell to push through
200 new federal judges.

The right to filibuster legislation remains in place and Democrats fear
that eliminating it could make moderate and independent voters uneasy,
alter the character of the Senate and further decrease any attempts at
bipartisanship. Democrats from Republican-leaning states have said they
do not support the idea.

But Mr. Biden, a product of more than three decades in the Senate who
prides himself on his institutional credentials, recently showed more
openness to the idea of reducing the power of the filibuster. Senator
Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said any decision
would have to await the election though ``nothing's off the table.'' It
is clearly on the minds of Senate Democrats as they see a chance to take
the majority.

``A lot of us are seriously contemplating that possibility, but I'm not
ready to make a commitment at this point,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of
Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, told reporters on Capitol Hill. He
said a motivating force was how the Senate ``has disintegrated under the
abuse of the filibuster by Mitch McConnell.''

Once rarely used, the filibuster has become routine in the Senate as
deep polarization set in. In the past, Mr. Obama came close to calling
for jettisoning it, but Adam Jentleson, a progressive activist and a top
aide to the majority leader at the time, Harry Reid, said Mr. Obama's
framing of the filibuster as a negative force would make it harder for
Democrats who had been reluctant to consider the move to stick with that
position.

``Not only did he adopt the cause of reform, he cast it as a structural
civil rights issue,'' said Mr. Jentleson, the author of a coming book on
the decline of the Senate. ``Obama has reset the debate and given
senators a reason to see reform as a positive good, a step they can take
to fulfill his vision and erase the legacy of Jim Crow.''

Trying to turn Mr. Obama's comment on Democratic Senate candidates,
Republicans said that eliminating the filibuster would empower the most
liberal faction of the Democratic Party and alienate centrist voters.

``Mainstream voters can't stand what they're seeing from the woke mob of
liberals hijacking cities across America, and these candidates will have
to answer for why they want to give them more power,'' said Jesse Hunt,
a spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee.

A Senate rules change like weakening the filibuster is supposed to
require 67 votes. But in recent years, both parties used a convoluted
parliamentary maneuver to set the new Senate standard on nominations to
a simple majority and such an approach could be used to lower the
60-vote supermajority still needed to advance legislation to a majority.

Mr. McConnell, who has resisted entreaties from Mr. Trump to end the
filibuster and roll over Democrats, warned Democrats last month that it
would be a mistake to do so.

``The important thing for our Democratic friends to remember is that you
may not be in total control in the future,'' he said.

Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
