Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}All We Want to Do Is Watch Each
Other Play Video Games

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FCAKsn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{all-we-want-to-do-is-watch-each-other-play-video-games}{%
\section{All We Want to Do Is Watch Each Other Play Video
Games}\label{all-we-want-to-do-is-watch-each-other-play-video-games}}

Gamers are the new stars. Esports arenas are the new movie theaters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/03/fashion/03FORTNITE6/merlin_137567790_02272ab2-c666-4bda-8f6a-a7097956dabc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nellie-bowles}{Nellie
Bowles}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 2, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Video games are beginning their takeover of the real world.

Across North America this year, companies are turning malls, movie
theaters, storefronts and parking garages into neighborhood esports
arenas.

At the same time, content farms are spinning up in Los Angeles, where
managers now see gamers as some peculiar new form of famous person to
cultivate --- half athlete, half influencer.

And much of it is powered by the obsession with one game: Fortnite. Over
the last month, people have spent more than
\href{https://sullygnome.com/game/Fortnite/30/summary}{128 million
hours} on Twitch just watching other people play Fortnite, the game that
took all the best elements of building, shooting and survival games and
merged them into one.

How obsessed are people? After each of their wins this season, the
Houston Astros --- among
\href{https://www.sbnation.com/lookit/2018/3/11/17106330/fortnite-sports-celebrations-bundesliga-nrl-nba-nfl}{many
other sports teams }--- are doing a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q2V_58xws9g}{very specific dance},
their arms in the air, fingers spread, their legs bent, toes tapping
rapidly. It's a Fortnite dance.

Fortnite content received 2.4 billion views on YouTube in February
alone, \href{http://tubularinsights.com/top-fortnite-videos/}{according
to Tubular Insights}. So yes, people love playing video games --- but
people also love to watch others compete at them.

Esports are, finally, just like any other sport.

\hypertarget{heres-how-to-save-americas-malls}{%
\subsection{Here's How to Save America's
Malls}\label{heres-how-to-save-americas-malls}}

For gaming, this is a moment of convergence of trends. Professional
esports leagues around games like League of Legends are growing more
popular and more serious; huge numbers of people are tuning into
livestreams to watch gamers play
(\href{https://www.engadget.com/2018/03/26/fortnite-smashed-youtube-viewing-records/}{Fortnite
broke the record}), and going to YouTube to get fun game-centric content
from game celebrities.

At the same time? Physical spaces around the country are being renovated
into gamer bars.

Those 150 million gamers in America want to gather. They want to sit
next to each other, elbow to elbow, controller to controller. They want
the lighting to be cool, the snacks to be Hot Pockets, and they want a
full bar because they are not teenagers anymore.

It was inevitable. Movie theater attendance
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2018/1/3/16844662/movie-theater-attendance-2017-low-netflix-streaming}{hit
a 25-year low} in 2017, while
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/15/17123424/ninja-drake-fortnite-twitch-stream-record-travis-scott-juju}{638,000
tuned in to watch} Drake play Fortnite recently. The Paris Olympics in
2024 are now \href{https://www.bbc.com/sport/olympics/43893891}{in talks
to include}gaming as a demonstration sport.

Besides, gamers already have been playing together, chatting live on
headsets and messaging apps as they march through their increasingly
beautiful digital worlds.

Oakland's new esports arena threw a pre-opening party recently. A line
stretched down the block. Nearly 4,000 people jammed into the former
parking structure and onto the street around it, right in the touristy
heart of Jack London Square. The sponsor was Cup of Noodles. Inside it
was cacophony.

There were game sound effects, hundreds of hands clicking on
controllers, bags of chips opening and the periodic shrieks of
``shoutcasters,'' who comment on game play for live streams that tens of
thousands watch.

Tyler Endres, the co-founder of Esports Arena, said he had to speak at
four community meetings to convince the community it would, in fact,
like an esports arena.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/03/fashion/03FORTNITE7/merlin_137567922_0812550f-146d-491b-999f-b8065d6a62ce-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``They wanted a grocery store,'' Mr. Endres said, grimacing.

And yes, the arena had trouble getting a liquor license.

``The thought was, `They're 13-year-olds, they're not drinking,''' said
Jud Hannigan, 36, who is the chief executive of Allied Esports, an
investor in Esports Arena. ``But the average age is 25.''

It was a big industrial-looking space with a raised floor to hide the
warren of cables, designed flexibly for big stage games or for nights
when more people would play. Tonight was a bit of both, with more than a
hundred TVs and computers set up with different games.

On the glowing stage, two of the best from the scrum went head-to-head,
as the audience cheered and shoutcasters on high presenter chairs
narrated the play-by-play. A smoke machine blew over the whole scene.

Landon Trybuch, a 24-year old from Vancouver, British Columbia, said it
was nice to be out from the sweaty back rooms of video stores where he
used to play.

``It's amazing,'' he said, holding his own controller. Its cord had been
covered in yarn by his girlfriend. ``There's so much room.''

Image

David Morris, 12, playing Super Smash Bros.Credit...Jason Henry for The
New York Times

Six people ran a production studio in back, getting the game streamed
live --- audio, lighting, graphics, live cutting and instant replays.

Herb Press, 77, who designed the space, watched from the restaurant a
few steps above the fray. This was his first esports arena, and he was
not sure what to expect from the patrons.

``This is an audience involved in this particular time in the computer
age, but I'm amazed how critical they are,'' he said. ``They do have
serious concepts and tastes. I heard one come out of the bathroom and
say it looked cool in there.''

Mr. Press is excited about Seattle, where he is working to transform a
registered historic building, the four-story
\href{https://www.nps.gov/nr/feature/places/13000210.htm}{Union
Stables}, into an esports arena.

\hypertarget{make-money-playing-games-ask-them-how}{%
\subsection{Make Money Playing Games, Ask Them
How}\label{make-money-playing-games-ask-them-how}}

One recent afternoon in the Hollywood Hills, the guys were tired, but
the creative director needed more Fortnite content, and so the break
dancers kept going.

The guys were \href{https://fazeclan.com/}{FaZe Clan}, an esports
organization. Their job is to be cool gamers. They stream game play, and
they make highly shareable videos about video games. This workday goal
is to leave with three to four pieces of viral-ready content. So they'd
keep filming ``guess this dance move'' videos.

FaZe is one of several growing esports teams and content mills. The Faze
Clan, probably the largest pop gaming brand, has houses in California
(Calabasas and Hollywood) and Texas (Austin). Fans often show up outside
and try to come in, and Vera Salamone, the director of talent, is most
alarmed by the fact that their parents are driving them there.

``The Make-a-Wish kids came over a couple weeks ago, and all they wanted
to do was play Fortnite,'' said Ms. Salamone, who used to be on Kid
Rock's management team and wears a diamond on one of her teeth. She
worries about what happens to the boys --- the talent in the clan are
all boys --- as they grow up.

``They all have distinct personalities,'' Ms. Salamone said of the FaZe
gamers. ``Jev screams all the time.''

Jimmy Jellinek, chief creative officer of FaZe Clan and previously chief
content officer at Playboy, said: ``Jev will do a Top 5 clip of amateur
footage and then rage over the microphone, and those do extraordinarily
well.''

Thomas Oliveira, 24, who streams under the name
\href{https://www.twitch.tv/temperrr}{Temperrr}, took me down to his
suite, where \href{https://www.instagram.com/fazebarry/?hl=en}{Barry the
Bengal cat} lives and where Mr. Oliveira streams Fortnite on Twitch and
posts videos to his ****
\href{https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCD1eUqFkdQIu29iLdXkQ8BQ}{1.6
million YouTube followers}. He joined the collective when he was 15,
playing Call of Duty when the clan was a handful of snipers. He went to
school for business and was not even a full semester in when he stood up
during a math test and walked out.

By 2012, the group decided to start professional gaming teams to compete
in tournaments and take a percent of their earnings. Now they sign
players to the FaZe teams across all games. At the house now they focus
on more lifestyle gamer content. Mr. Oliveira has a tattoo of a wolf
with the FaZe logo over it.

As he talked, he was playing Fortnite with his brother in Brazil. Their
characters greeted each other and started dancing. ``It's colorful and
smooth,'' Mr. Oliveira said. ``You can laugh a lot playing this game ---
like, this dude's just dancing.''

The players were most recently working with Fullscreen Media, an
entertainment company that works with internet stars, but now many in
FaZe are heading off to make their own media company, ``so we don't have
to split money with a random company,'' Mr. Oliveira said.

\hypertarget{avengers-or-not-hollywood-is-failing-us}{%
\subsection{Avengers or Not, Hollywood Is Failing
Us}\label{avengers-or-not-hollywood-is-failing-us}}

Ms. Salamone took me to the corporate office, a WeWork at Hollywood and
Vine, where that new gamer management company is taking shape.

Lee Trink, 50, an owner of FaZe Clan, has a desk that is almost entirely
empty except for a crossbow. His last gig was president of Capitol
Records. Now, he says, esports and gaming are the future and will
eclipse movies.

``The industry is asleep at the switch,'' he said. ``For people my age
and older who control a lot of the zeitgeist, the vibe is still `gamers
must be nerds in their parents' basement.'''

He wore an unbuttoned chambray shirt over a tight white T-shirt, AirPods
on a belt harness, and metal and leather bracelets.

He is not alone in his thinking about the industry. Peter Guber, the
chief executive of the Mandalay Entertainment Group, and Ted Leonsis,
the majority owner of Monumental Sports \& Entertainment,
\href{https://deadline.com/2016/09/peter-guber-ted-leonsis-lead-group-buy-control-esports-team-liquid-1201826800/}{bought
a clan called Team Liquid recently}. (``We've won \$19 million in prize
money so far,'' said Mike Milanov, the chief operating officer of Team
Liquid, which recently opened an 8,000 square foot esports team training
facility in Santa Monica.)

``The experience of games is so rich, so deep, they deliver on the
promise, whereas films have increasingly not delivered on the promise,''
Mr. Trink said. ``We're creating a business that's filling a void people
don't even know is a void yet.''

He sees streaming gamers as a fully new genre of mainstream
entertainment. And like every generation of entertainment before,
they'll need their own palaces.

\hypertarget{were-all-athletes-now}{%
\subsection{We're All Athletes Now}\label{were-all-athletes-now}}

Gamers are coming together for practical reasons as well as social ones.
Games are so sophisticated that they can overload home connections. And
cryptocurrency miners have driven the price of crucial gear --- like the
graphics card gamers use to amp up their computers' processing speeds.

``We're seeing the rebirth of social gaming,'' Luigino Gigante, 27, who
opened a gaming center called Waypoint Cafe on the Lower East Side of
New York late last year. ``It's bringing back the community aspect of
gaming again. It's like, `O.K., we're still playing separately, but
we're together.'''

And there's an underused asset already at hand.

``The movie theater!'' said Ann Hand, the C.E.O. of Super League Gaming,
which converts movie theaters into esports arenas, and has raised \$32
million from investors. ``It has that thunderous sound, and it's empty a
lot of the time.''

Image

Let's game.Credit...Jason Henry for The New York Times

Two days a week, Ms. Hand and her crews convert about 50 movie
auditoriums into esports arenas, where kids, mostly younger, compete and
watch the game projected onto the big screen.

For the Super League Gamers, the events can accompany or replace
traditional sports. It's a new Little League and Minor League for
today's athletes. Each city plays together as a branded team --- there's
the Chicago Force, the New York Fury, the San Francisco Ionics. So far,
there are 50,000 players.

Parents accompany younger players, and the real-life experience opens
their eyes. ``The most common piece of feedback was that they knew their
son or daughter loved this game, but they had no way to understand the
game or know if they were any good at it,'' Ms. Hand said. ``Like, `I
didn't know my son or daughter was that competitive.'''

By 2019, she expects to be in 500 venues.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
