Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}The Death of the Department
Store: `Very Few Are Likely to Survive'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VOu6JI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9471d0-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9471d1-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9471d2-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9471d3-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9498e0-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=9c9498e1-f4ba-11ea-ac49-a90bab9687ed\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-death-of-the-department-store-very-few-are-likely-to-survive}{%
\section{The Death of the Department Store: `Very Few Are Likely to
Survive'}\label{the-death-of-the-department-store-very-few-are-likely-to-survive}}

Shuttered flagships. Empty malls. Canceled orders. Risks of bankruptcy.
The coronavirus has hit the behemoths of the retail world.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/16/business/16virus-deptstores/12MACYS-illo-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-sapna-maheshwari/author-sapna-maheshwari-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/vanessa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/vanessa-friedman/vanessa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/vanessa-friedman}{Vanessa
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 21, 2020Updated May 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

American
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/12/business/retail-store-closings.html?searchResultPosition=8}{department
stores}, once all-powerful shopping meccas that anchored malls and Main
Streets across the country, have been dealt blow after blow in the past
decade. J.C. Penney and Sears were upended by hedge funds. Macy's has
been closing stores and cutting corporate staff.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/business/barneys-bankruptcy-authentic-brands.html}{Barneys
New York} filed for bankruptcy last year.

But nothing compares to the shock the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/business/coronavirus-retail-furloughs-macys.html?searchResultPosition=1}{weakened
industry} has taken from the coronavirus pandemic. The sales of clothing
and accessories fell by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/business/economy/coronavirus-retail-sales.html?searchResultPosition=1}{more
than half} in March, a trend that is expected to only get worse in
April. The entire executive team at Lord \& Taylor was let go this
month.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/business/coronavirus-retail-bankruptcies-private-equity.html}{Nordstrom}
has canceled orders and put off paying its vendors. The Neiman Marcus
Group, the most glittering of the American department store chains, is
expected to declare bankruptcy in the coming days, the first major
retailer felled during the current crisis.

It is not likely to be the last.

``The department stores, which have been failing slowly for a very long
time, really don't get over this,'' said Mark A. Cohen, the director of
retail studies at Columbia University's Business School. ``The genre is
toast, and looking at the other side of this, there are very few who are
likely to survive.''

At a time when retailers should be putting in orders for the
all-important holiday shopping season, stores are furloughing tens of
thousands of corporate and store employees, hoarding cash and
desperately planning how to survive this crisis. The specter of mass
default is being discussed not just behind closed doors but in analysts'
future models. Whether or not that happens, no one doubts that the
upheaval caused by the pandemic will permanently alter both the retail
landscape and the relationships of brands with the stores that sell
them.

At the very least, there is expected to be an enormous reduction in the
number of stores in each chain, which once sprawled across the American
continent like a pack of many-headed hydras.

Department store chains account for about 30 percent of the total mall
square footage in the United States, with 10 percent of that coming from
Sears and J.C. Penney, according to a January report from Green Street
Advisors, a real estate research firm. Even before the pandemic, the
firm expected about half of mall-based department stores to close in the
next five years.

Even as they have worked to transform themselves for e-commerce with
apps, websites and in-store exchanges, the outbreak has laid bare how
dependent the department stores have remained on their physical
outposts.
\href{https://www.macysinc.com/news-media/press-releases/detail/1618/macys-inc-provides-business-update-in-response-to}{Macy's
said} on March 30 that after closing its stores for nearly two weeks, it
had lost the majority of its sales.

The Commerce Department's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/business/economy/coronavirus-retail-sales.html}{retail
sales report} for March, released last week, was disastrous. Overall
retail sales numbers for this month are expected to be even worse, given
that some stores were open for at least part of March.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/16/business/00virus-deptstores-1/00virus-deptstores-1-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Retailers have begun taking extreme measures to try to survive. Le Tote,
a subscription clothing company that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/28/business/lord-taylor-sold-le-tote.html}{acquired
Lord \& Taylor last year from Hudson's Bay,} said in a memo on April 2
that the chain's entire executive team, including the chief executive,
would be let go immediately. It also suspended payments of goods to
vendors for at least 90 days, citing ``immense pressure on our liquidity
position.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Macy's, which also owns Bloomingdale's, extended payment for goods and
services to 120 days from 60 days and, according to
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-macy-s-lazard-exclusive/exclusive-macys-taps-lazard-to-bolster-finances-as-coronavirus-saps-sales-sources-idUSKCN21T0V7?campaign_id=4\&emc=edit_dk_20200413\&instance_id=17600\&nl=dealbook\&regi_id=85191350\&segment_id=24954\&te=1\&user_id=81e072bc836b948b7626c901a9b9bda3}{Reuters},
has hired bankers from Lazard to explore new financing. Jeff Gennette,
the chief executive, is forgoing any compensation for the duration of
the crisis. The company was dropped from the S\&P 500 last month based
on its valuation.

J.C. Penney has hired Lazard, the law firm Kirkland \& Ellis and the
consultancy AlixPartners to explore restructuring options, according to
two people familiar with the matter, and confirmed that it skipped an
interest payment on its debt last week. It is expected to make a
decision on what to do, including potentially filing for bankruptcy,
within a few weeks, one of the people said.

But none of them were in as immediate dire straits as Neiman Marcus,
which has both an enormous debt burden --- about \$4.8 billion, thanks
in part to a leveraged buyout in 2013 by the owners Ares Management and
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board --- and a raft of expensive
rents in the most high-profile shopping destinations, signed during boom
times.

In late March, Neiman stopped accepting new merchandise and furloughed a
large portion of its approximately 14,000 employees as the rumors of
bankruptcy began to swirl. Its chief executive, Geoffroy van Raemdonck,
announced that he was waiving his salary for April. The brand denied to
vendors and its own employees at its sister brand Bergdorf Goodman that
it was engaging advisers to explore a bankruptcy filing, but on April
14, S\&P downgraded Neiman's credit rating. Last week, the retailer did
not make an interest payment that was due on April 15, angering
\href{https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/marble-ridge-capital-sends-letter-to-board-of-directors-of-the-neiman-marcus-group-301042039.html}{bondholders}
and further fueling suspicions that a bankruptcy filing was imminent. A
spokesperson for Neiman Marcus declined to comment.

Image

Barneys offered steep discounts after declaring bankruptcy last
year.Credit...Stephen Speranza for The New York Times

Even Nordstrom, widely considered the healthiest department store, said
this month that it could be facing a ``distressed'' situation if its
physical locations closed to customers for ``an extended period of
time.'' Erik and Pete Nordstrom, chief executive and chief brand
officer, are both receiving no base salary for at least six months. The
chain has stunned some vendors with last-minute cancellations via email
in recent days.

Across chains, prices for new merchandise sold via e-commerce have
already been slashed by 40 percent in some cases. Order cancellations
for the pre-fall season --- which would normally have started delivering
next month --- have been increasing. Some brands said shipments have
even been turned away upon delivery to warehouses, and extensions of
payment terms are cascading through vendors, who are then forced to
negotiate with their own manufacturers, marketing agencies, fulfillment
centers and landlords.

``I've had a showroom for over 30 years, and we have always used the
word `partnership,' when talking about our relationship with the
department stores,'' said Betsee Isenberg of the showroom 10Eleven,
which represents numerous brands such as Vince and ATM. ``Through 9/11,
through 2008, we worked hand in hand with our retailers. This is the
first time the onus has been on the brands --- many of which are losing
millions and millions of dollars because of the canceled orders. It is
just not fair that it is survival of the fittest.'' In a new report,
McKinsey refers to the situation as ``wholesale Darwinism.''

The resort season has been canceled entirely, and fall orders have been
put on hold, raising questions about what inventory will be left if and
when shops reopen and consumers return to stores.

Image

The Neiman Marcus store at Hudson Yards in Manhattan. With stores
closed, retailers have seen sales plummet.Credit...Mark Wickens for The
New York Times

``Nobody knows what Q4 will be like, but you have to start putting the
orders in now,'' Sucharita Kodali, a retail analyst at Forrester, said
of the holiday season, normally the most lucrative time of the year for
the chains. ``Some people don't even have the money to put in Q4 orders,
and may have to cancel Q4 orders anyway, and it's a mess. There's never
been this much uncertainty.''

Robert Burke, the eponymous founder of a luxury consultancy, said he
expected brands to move further away from a wholesale business, focusing
on direct-to-consumer and a model with department stores where they
control their own space and inventory.

Shares of J.C. Penney, which has temporarily shut its more than 800
stores, closed at 23 cents on the dollar last Wednesday after the
retailer said it did not make a \$12 million interest payment due that
day. Brooke Buchanan, a representative, said it was a ``strategic
decision'' in order to take advantage of a 30-day grace period before it
was considered in default.

Image

Normally bustling stores like Saks Fifth Avenue are now
empty.Credit...Haruka Sakaguchi for The New York Times

Ms. Buchanan said J.C. Penney had ``been engaged in discussions with its
lenders since mid-2019 to evaluate options to strengthen its balance
sheet, a process that has become even more important as our stores have
also closed due to the pandemic.''

Cash flow for all department stores has dropped sharply. In a note on
April 13, analysts at Cowen estimated four months of liquidity at
Macy's, six months at Kohl's and seven months for J.C. Penney.
Nordstrom, they predicted, could withstand store closings for 12 months.

``The nature of the mall is if you lose a big anchor like a Macy's, you
have co-tenancy issues and you have more pressure on the mall traffic,
which was already a big issue,'' said Oliver Chen, an analyst at Cowen.
Co-tenancy clauses typically allow other tenants to demand rent
reductions if certain key chains depart. Mr. Chen said that could
accelerate the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/01/04/business/the-economics-and-nostalgia-of-dead-malls.html}{ongoing
divide}between top-tier malls and the second- or third-choice malls in
certain areas.

According to a report this month from S\&P Global Market Intelligence,
department stores were more likely than any other consumer industry to
default on their debt in the next year. It estimated the probability at
42 percent.

Image

Nordstrom's new store in Manhattan. Analysts predicted that it had
enough cash to withstand 12 months of stores closures.Credit...Karsten
Moran for The New York Times

In its April 2 memo, the management of Le Tote and Lord \& Taylor said
only ``key employees'' were being retained to preserve the business. A
representative for Lord \& Taylor and Le Tote declined to comment or
disclose the number of employees who were furloughed and laid off.

``It appears to be a virtual certainty that Lord \& Taylor will
liquidate its business in the near future, either in or out of
bankruptcy,'' said James Van Horn, a partner at Barnes \& Thornburg and
a specialist in retail bankruptcy. ``They were already one of the most
challenged department stores prior to the coronavirus pandemic, and when
the majority of the management team is leaving, the vast majority of
employees are laid off and a minority of employees furloughed, there
does not seem to be any other strategy but to liquidate the inventory.''

Mr. Van Horn said he expected that other chains might strategically
employ Chapter 11 reorganizations to legally shed stores, lightening
their rent burden.

``It will likely be a domino that falls,'' he said. ``Whether it is
first or 10th, we don't know.''

Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

Contact Sapna Maheshwari at
\href{mailto:sapna@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{sapna@NYTimes.com}} or
Vanessa Friedman at
\href{mailto:vanessa.friedman@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{vanessa.friedman@NYTimes.com}}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
