Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}What Is Elite TikTok?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Act3g5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-is-elite-tiktok}{%
\section{What Is Elite TikTok?}\label{what-is-elite-tiktok}}

Teenagers on the platform have inherited the legacy of Weird Twitter and
Weird Facebook, posturing as multinational corporations and posting
about beans and frogs.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/10/fashion/10ELITE-TIKTOK-combo/10ELITE-TIKTOK-combo-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As multinational corporations face a reckoning, thousands of American
teenagers are playfully posturing as retail stores and popular household
brands on TikTok.

This universe of faux brand accounts makes up just a sliver of what is
known on the platform as Elite TikTok, or Alt TikTok. It is not marked
by the attractive dancing young people most readily associated with
TikTok --- that's called Straight TikTok --- but instead a loose group
of subjects and behaviors: beans, frogs, fairy-speak, Elmo edits and
self-referential jokes.

``Elite TikTok is this weird group of chaos that these kids have made
into a thing,'' said Connie Yao, 22 and a talent manager for influencers
in Sydney.

Anthropomorphized brands are also in its wheelhouse.

Accounts like @ibuprofenmedicine, @dollartree\_officiall and
@bathandbodyworksofficial1 and hundreds more have assigned personalities
to stores and products,
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@theofficialpantene}{such as a bottle of
shampoo}, adding lip and eye emojis to storefronts and logos to create a
face. This group is called Retail TikTok. Its members use personified
brand accounts to act out story lines, post comedy videos and
participate in viral challenges and memes.

Megan, 14, who runs @walmart.department.store, said that acting out
scenarios as a multinational corporation is a fun creative exercise.
``Some stores date,'' she said. ``They make fake things happen between
them. I know Goldfish and Fruit Gushers are dating. I'm pretty sure
In-N-Out Burger and some other restaurants are a couple too.''

Eleanor, 14, who runs @Swiffer\_Official, said that she prefers that
TikTok account over her main account. It's lower-stakes and allows her
to engage in silly feuds with fake competitors.

``If you're Takis, you try to expose Hot Cheetos because they're your
enemies,'' she said. ``You'll find bad reviews of Cheetos online and
make a video about them. It's cancel culture, but fun. We all
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/28/style/is-it-canceled.html}{canceled}
Dasani because no one likes Dasani.''

The brand accounts follow other Elite TikTok trends, including obsessing
over pictures of a young Jason Earles, an actor who appeared in the
Disney show ``Hannah Montana,'' and Adam Jones, a 17-year-old member of
a Christian family band. When obscure audio clips like the theme
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSdc55Y3UnU}{song from ``Martha
Speaks,'' a PBS Kids show} and a clip from
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=astISOttCQ0}{The Gummy Bear
Song}'' started trending in May, Elite TikTok was responsible.

When it comes to obscure TikTok audio tracks, there's a level of
one-upmanship among members of Elite TikTok. ``There's two audios,
`tacos are not for breakfast' and `who in the hell put the muffins in
the freezer,''' said Ava, 15, who runs the @OfficialTabasco account on
TikTok, ``That's what people who are trying to get into Elite TikTok
think it is. They think they're in Elite TikTok, but really they only
know those audios and are posers.''

Members of Elite TikTok often make strange audio tracks go viral, then
mock Straight TikTok users who post videos that incorporate them. The
joke is that they will
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V6sFXjXKmtI}{dance to anything}.
Avani Gregg, a popular TikTok star known primarily for her dance videos,
was called out when she
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-f667HSGnqo}{claimed to be part of
Elite TikTok}.

Though an account posing as a tub of Vaseline has
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@thevaseline}{been around since last fall},
the retail offshoot of Elite TikTok didn't really gain traction until
late April when an account known as
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@purellofficial/video/6821704984191569158}{@PurellOfficial}
began posting as a personified bottle of Purell. Soon after, an account
posing as
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@theburlingtoncoatfactory}{Burlington Coat
Factory} adopted and popularized the format.

Now, hundreds of brands are represented on TikTok. Josey, 13, made her
account @BurgerKingRetail just two days ago. She said boredom during
quarantine was a motivating factor.

``No one really has that much to do right now,'' she said, ``so this
gives us people to talk to and make content with.'' Megan said many
brand accounts start group chats and have made friends with each other;
hers is called ``Retail Besties.''

Some teenagers said the parody accounts had introduced them to new
companies and reshaped their perception of others.

``I've seen Bass Pro Shops before, but now I actually kind of want to
go,'' Eleanor said. Megan said that she'd never heard of In-N-Out Burger
before being introduced to it on Retail TikTok. Now, she wants to eat
there. ``If I ever travel out to where there's In-N-Out Burger I want to
try it out now,'' she said.

The rise of Elite TikTok mirrors that of
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/jwherrman/weird-twitter-the-oral-history}{Weird
Twitter} or
\href{https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2016/02/weird-facebook-became-cool-again.html}{Weird
Facebook} before it. John Herrman, a New York Times reporter,
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/jwherrman/weird-twitter-the-oral-history}{once
described Weird Twitter} as ``vast and amorphous; what it looks like
depends hugely on whom you follow, when you followed them, and what you
find funny.'' The same could be said of Elite TikTok. ``What we want to
do is get away from all the popular creators who post dancing stuff,''
said Ava.

In a Medium post titled
``\href{https://medium.com/@kristinmerrilees23/tiktok-is-only-getting-weirder-3c51b072f2f9}{TikTok
Is Only Getting Weirder},'' Kristin Merrilees described the many
subgenres of TikTok that have risen up lately. ``There's color TikTok,
which consists of accounts that act as personified versions of different
Pantone paint swatch colors,'' she
\href{https://medium.com/@kristinmerrilees23/tiktok-is-only-getting-weirder-3c51b072f2f9}{writes}.
``Others include state TikTok, element TikTok, medicine TikTok,
appliance TikTok, plant TikTok, vegetable TikTok, even strait TikTok (as
in the water feature). Every time I open up TikTok, there seems to be a
new side.''

As more communities on TikTok
\href{https://twitter.com/hvzitates/status/1270101842207236096}{fracture
and emerge}, even the app's youngest users can struggle to keep up.
Nava, a 12-year-old in Washington state, said that lately even more dark
and bizarre videos have begun to appear on her feed.

``I'm definitely on Elite TikTok or Alt TikTok,'' she said, ``but this
week I found myself on Deep TikTok.'' DeepTok is the even more bizarre
cousin of Alt TikTok or Elite TikTok. In her Medium post, Ms. Merrilees
describes DeepTok as ``if deep-fried memes came to life.''

``I got one video that was a shrimp dancing to a creepy song, and one
where three men were riding on a tandem bike. I wouldn't call it scary,
but it's weird,'' Nava said.

Ms. Merrilees considers Bean TikTok and Retail TikTok part of the shift
toward DeepTok.

``I think Deep TikTok is the new Elite TikTok,'' she said in a phone
interview on Tuesday. ``It's very over the top, quirky and eccentric,
it's trying to be as far out as possible.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
