Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Fund-Raiser Received
Laundered Foreign Money, Prosecutors Say

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DU1V4O}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-fund-raiser-received-laundered-foreign-money-prosecutors-say}{%
\section{Trump Fund-Raiser Received Laundered Foreign Money, Prosecutors
Say}\label{trump-fund-raiser-received-laundered-foreign-money-prosecutors-say}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/12/02/autossell/02Broidy/merlin_138491232_a3f08789-1601-412c-a90c-56f59ceee647-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 30, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Federal prosecutors cited the involvement of a onetime
top fund-raiser to President Trump on Friday in a scheme to launder
millions of dollars into the country to help a flamboyant Malaysian
financier end a Justice Department investigation.

Elliott Broidy, a Los Angeles-based businessman who was a finance vice
chairman of Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign and inauguration committees, was
paid to lobby the Trump administration to try to end an investigation
related to the embezzlement of billions of dollars from a Malaysian
state-owned fund, according to court filings made public on Friday.

The filings were released in connection with a guilty plea entered by
George Higginbotham, a former Justice Department employee. Mr.
Higginbotham admitted to conspiring to lie to banks about the source of
tens of millions of dollars he funneled into the United States from the
Malaysian financier Jho Low, who federal authorities say
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/24/world/asia/jho-low-malaysia-1mdb.html}{masterminded
a scheme to loot} the 1 Malaysia Development Berhad fund, also known as
1MDB.

Mr. Higginbotham, who left the Justice Department in August, was not
involved in the department's investigation of Mr. Low, and is
cooperating with prosecutors.

In his guilty plea, Mr. Higginbotham admitted that he and the
entertainer and businessman Pras Michel, a former member of the Fugees,
a defunct hip-hop group, arranged for millions of dollars of Mr. Low's
money to be transferred to a law firm owned by Mr. Broidy's wife to pay
them to try to end the 1MDB investigation.

The charging papers and supporting documents do not identify Mr. Broidy
or his wife, Robin Rosenzweig, by name, and neither has been charged
with a crime. But the facts of the case align with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/19/world/asia/elliott-broidy-trump-malaysia-china-guo.html}{previous
reporting on Mr. Broidy's efforts} related to 1MDB, as well as emails
from Mr. Broidy that were stolen from Ms. Rosenzweig's account and
disseminated to news outlets that match emails cited in Friday's court
filings. And people with knowledge of the case said that Mr. Broidy was
the person identified in the filings as ``Person 1'' or ``Individual
1,'' who is described as ``a nonlawyer business owner'' who ``owns
several businesses, including an investment firm.''

In a brief interview on Friday, Mr. Broidy did not deny that the filings
refer to him. But he referred specific questions to his lawyer, who did
not respond to a request for comment.

Mr. Broidy, who
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2009/12/03/guilty-plea-in-new-york-pension-bribery-case/}{pleaded
guilty in 2009} in an unrelated pension fund bribery case, is one of
several Trump associates whose business with foreign governments and
figures has
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/gop-fundraiser-broidy-under-investigation-for-alleged-effort-to-sell-government-influence-people-familiar-with-probe-say/2018/08/17/c9e55792-a185-11e8-8e87-c869fe70a721_story.html?utm_term=.0f1238b61ea0}{attracted
scrutiny}, including from investigators for the special counsel, Robert
S. Mueller III.

A veteran Republican fund-raiser who also owns a defense contracting
firm, Mr. Broidy had seemed positioned to become a highly influential
figure in a political hierarchy that was upended by Mr. Trump's victory.
Mr. Broidy had started raising money for Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign at a
time when most elite Republican donors were staying away. After Mr.
Trump's election, Mr. Broidy
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/25/us/politics/elliott-broidy-trump-access-circinus-lobbying.html}{marketed
his connection to the new administration} to politicians, businessmen
and governments around the world, including some with unsavory records,
and won big contracts for his defense firm.

The continuing case of Mr. Low and 1MDB is complex, with federal
prosecutors unsealing an indictment against him and an associate in
November, and extracting a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/09/business/goldman-sachs-malaysia-1mdb.html}{guilty
plea from a former Goldman Sachs banker} who was involved in bribes and
kickbacks related to 1MDB bond work. Mr. Broidy's involvement, which
predates Mr. Low's indictment, underscores both Mr. Low's efforts to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/13/business/jho-low-1mdb-influence-campaign.html}{navigate
the United States judicial system}, and the far-flung nature of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/24/us/politics/rick-gates-elliott-broidy-trump-payments.html}{Mr.
Broidy's business pursuits} in the early days of the Trump
administration.

In March 2017, Mr. Low's associates were looking to retain ``someone
with political influence,'' according to a Friday filing. Their goal was
to help him deflect efforts by American authorities to seize assets
bought with money he was accused of siphoning from 1MDB, and to end the
Justice Department investigation into his activities, according to the
filings. They indicate that, after Mr. Low expressed interest in hiring
Mr. Broidy and Ms. Rosenzweig's law firm, Mr. Michel met with Mr. Broidy
and an associate ``and explained Jho Low's situation in the 1MDB
matters.''

Mr. Broidy ``indicated to Michel that although he was willing to assist
Jho Low, he would not take any compensation directly from Jho Low in
exchange for his services,'' according to the filings. They indicate
that Mr. Broidy ``wanted \$15 million in compensation, but Michel
negotiated the price down to approximately \$8 million.''

At least \$6 million was transferred to Ms. Rosenzweig's law firm
through various accounts set up to ``disguise the true source, origin
and purpose of the funds, and, specifically, to conceal from U.S.
financial institutions Jho Low's ownership, control and affiliation with
these funds and transactions,'' according to the filings.

A draft agreement called for a \$75 million ``success fee'' to be paid
to Mr. Broidy if the investigation was resolved within 180 days, or \$50
million if it was resolved within 365 days.

Mr. Broidy traveled to Thailand in May 2017 to meet with Mr. Low and Mr.
Michel, and he indicated ``that he would sit down with Jho Low's legal
team and figure out the best way to get to a settlement on the 1MDB
matters,'' according to the filings.

Mr. Michel indicated that Mr. Broidy ``agreed to try to influence a
potential nominee for a federal position that would have authority over
the 1MDB forfeiture matters,'' according to the filings, which note that
the potential office holder was not nominated.

The filings also detail a memo sent in August 2017 by Mr. Broidy's
assistant to him outlining talking points intended to ease concerns
about the 1MDB scandal that were apparently intended for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/19/world/asia/elliott-broidy-trump-malaysia-china-guo.html}{use
by Najib Razak, then the prime minister of Malaysia}, during a
conversation with Mr. Trump.

And the court filings indicate that Mr. Low's allies talked with Mr.
Broidy about using his ``political connections to lobby United States
government officials'' to force the exit of a Chinese dissident from the
United States.

Mr. Broidy did not register to lobby for Mr. Razak or Mr. Low, and on
Friday, he said that his activities did not constitute lobbying.

He has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/20/world/middleeast/broidy-trump-hackers-qatar.html}{claimed
in a lawsuit} that he is the victim of a cyberattack by people working
for Qatar, who stole his emails in retaliation for his criticism of the
country and disseminated them to the news media. Qatar has denied
responsibility.

Friday's court filings in Mr. Higginbotham's case cite at least one
email from Mr. Broidy that was disseminated to the news media.
Prosecutors note that Mr. Broidy ``has alleged that at least some of the
stolen emails were manipulated and/or fabricated by the hackers.''

Mr. Broidy had also drawn unwanted attention because of the criminal
investigation of Mr. Trump's former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen,
which led to the revelation in April that Mr. Cohen had arranged
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/13/us/politics/elliott-broidy-michael-cohen-payout.html?module=inline}{a
\$1.6 million hush agreement} with a former Playboy model who became
pregnant during an affair with Mr. Broidy. That led to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/13/us/politics/elliott-broidy-michael-cohen-payout.html?module=inline}{Mr.
Broidy's resignation} as deputy finance chairman of the Republican
National Committee.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
