Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports}{Sports}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports}{Sports}\textbar{}After 100 Podcasts, JJ Redick
Widens His Range

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Xo8569}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-100-podcasts-jj-redick-widens-his-range}{%
\section{After 100 Podcasts, JJ Redick Widens His
Range}\label{after-100-podcasts-jj-redick-widens-his-range}}

The New Orleans Pelicans shooter is starting a new show and a production
company to develop more podcasts.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/sports/03nba-redick01/merlin_175216275_d2c6b18a-1a98-4aa9-9e61-bdae31d0f62b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/scott-cacciola}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-scott-cacciola/author-scott-cacciola-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/scott-cacciola}{Scott Cacciola}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JJ Redick of the New Orleans Pelicans came prepared.

Ahead of the N.B.A. season's restart at Walt Disney World last month,
Redick crammed his luggage full of everything he would need for a stay
of indeterminate length --- and that included his podcasting equipment.
Laptop. Microphone. High-tech digital recorder. He also made sure to
pack some reading material:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/04/books/review/our-time-is-now-stacey-abrams.html}{``Our
Time Is Now,'' by Stacey Abrams}, the former candidate for governor in
Georgia and one of Redick's upcoming podcast guests.

``My prep for Stacey Abrams is going to be way different than my prep
for Joel Embiid,'' Redick said.

Consider the evolution of Redick, who has long been a subject of
fascination for basketball fans of a certain vintage. Once upon a time,
he was the brash and oft-reviled star at Duke, a shooting guard whose
confidence irritated opposing crowds to the point of madness. Now 36, he
is one of the N.B.A.'s more esteemed figures, a mentor to younger
teammates and a 14-year pro whose
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/sports/jj-redick-sixers.html}{work
ethic borders on compulsive}.

``I kind of see him as an older brother,'' said Nickeil
Alexander-Walker, a 21-year-old guard for the Pelicans.

In recent years, Redick has added another dimension to his public
persona by hosting his own podcast. He has interviewed athletes and
chefs, authors and bankers, politicians and actors. For a self-described
introvert, Redick thinks of it as an exercise in personal development
--- and as a way for him to connect with an even broader audience.

``It's given me a medium to express myself,'' he said.

Now, Redick hopes to expand his platform. In a telephone interview, he
said he was set to start his podcast company, ThreeFourTwo Productions,
this week with his co-host and business partner, Tommy Alter, along with
\href{https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-old-man-and-the-three-with-jj-redick-and-tommy-alter/id1525281746}{a
new weekly podcast, ``The Old Man and the Three,''} which ticks the
obligatory podcast box of having a pun in its title.

``It's a little play on Hemingway,'' Redick said. ``I'm the old man in
this scenario.''

Redick's final podcast for
\href{https://www.theringer.com/the-jj-redick-podcast}{The Ringer}
website, which had produced his namesake show since 2017, was released
on July 24. But he said the idea of starting his own company had been
percolating for months when he brought the idea to Alter, 29, a producer
for shows like ``The Shop'' on HBO and ``Desus \& Mero'' on Showtime.

``He has this institutional knowledge of the industry already,'' Alter
said, ``so this was just the natural progression.''

Redick and Alter, who are partnering with the podcast company
\href{http://www.cadence13.com/}{Cadence13}, said they hoped to build
out a small network of additional podcasts over the next two to three
years. (ThreeFourTwo represents Redick's routine of making 342 shots
every Sunday in the off-season.)

``We want to bring on people we know in different industries, whether
that's doing another basketball pod or a food pod or a political pod,''
Redick said. ``These are the sorts of conversations we're having right
now. But the focus right now is on launching the new podcast.''

The first two episodes --- one featuring Abrams and another with Damian
Lillard of the Portland Trail Blazers --- are scheduled to drop on
Wednesday.

Redick, who continues to score for the Pelicans, averaging 14.9 points
this season, said it was never his intention to moonlight as a
podcaster. He sort of stumbled into it. In 2015, he was playing for the
Los Angeles Clippers when the sportswriter Adrian Wojnarowski, who was
then working for Yahoo Sports, approached him about writing personal
essays for a series on the site. Redick said he briefly considered the
idea before he succumbed to his anxiety.

``It's taking me back to college,'' Redick recalled telling Wojnarowski,
``when I'd procrastinate and have to write a 20-page paper the night
before it's due --- I don't want to do this.''

A few months later, Wojnarowski came to Redick with another possibility:
Would he be interested in hosting a podcast?

``I did not know anything about podcasts,'' Redick said.

Redick's wife, Chelsea, advised him to check out
\href{https://serialpodcast.org/}{``Serial,'' the true-crime podcast}
that had become a phenomenon. It probably was not what Yahoo Sports had
in mind, he recalled telling his wife. But after sampling a few more
conversational podcasts, Redick decided to take the plunge. He figured
it would be good preparation in case he wanted to work in sports media
after he retired from the N.B.A.

For his first show, Redick booked a telephone interview with Jared
Dudley, one of the league's chattiest players and someone he had known
for years. But Redick still treated it as if he was studying for the
LSAT exam. He compiled 15 pages of notes. He knew more about Dudley than
he ever thought he would need to know about Dudley.

``I was terrified,'' Redick said.

It got worse before it got better. On the night he was supposed to
record the episode, the power went out at his home in Southern
California. In search of power and a reliable internet connection,
Redick scrambled over to the Clippers' practice center. After setting up
an ad hoc studio in the media work room, he got some bad news from his
engineer in New York: There was a lot of background noise from the
traffic outside.

``I was just like, `Well, this is not going well,''' Redick recalled.

It was an inauspicious start, but he pushed through the growing pains.
Early on, he said, he would self-medicate by chugging a beer before each
episode. He would also work up a list of questions for each guest that
looked more like a flow chart: ``If he answers it this way, then I'm
going to ask this.'' By his own admission, there was room for growth.

``But I think it was still such a novel thing at the time that people
really responded to it,'' Redick said. ``And by the fifth episode, I
felt like I had something here.''

Like anything else, he said, improvement required reps. He said he had
now made exactly 100 episodes: 40 for Yahoo Sports, a single episode for
Uninterrupted and 59 for The Ringer. Over time, Alter said, a crustier
segment of the listening public seemed to come around to viewing Redick
in a different light.

``You could see it in the comments,'' Alter said. ``People were like, `I
want to hate you, but I can't anymore.'''

At the same time, Redick has instant bona fides with many of his guests,
particularly with fellow players.

``I think there's a level of candor there that's unique,'' Alter said,
``and fans have picked up on that.''

That dynamic was clear last month when the Clippers' Patrick Beverley,
one of the league's most tenacious defenders, was a guest on one of
Redick's final episodes for The Ringer. Beverley prefaced the interview
by asking a pressing question of his own.

``We can curse on this, right?'' Beverley asked. (Yes, he could curse.)

Beverley
\href{https://www.theringer.com/2020/7/16/21327810/patrick-beverley-on-doubt-setting-goals-and-developing-his-game}{spent
parts of the next hour sharing stories} from his childhood in Chicago
and from his playing days overseas. He recalled how he once wrote his
dream of reaching the N.B.A. on a scrap of paper when he visited the
Western Wall, the iconic holy site in Jerusalem, and how he still
scribbles his goals on Post-it Notes.

``These are stories --- I've never told anyone this,'' Beverley told
Redick.

The goal is always authenticity, Redick said. He wants his guests to
open up. In the process, he has done the same.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
