Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Inside Trump's About-Face on
the Republican Convention in Jacksonville

\url{https://nyti.ms/30ONXuK}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{inside-trumps-about-face-on-the-republican-convention-in-jacksonville}{%
\section{Inside Trump's About-Face on the Republican Convention in
Jacksonville}\label{inside-trumps-about-face-on-the-republican-convention-in-jacksonville}}

Faced with a surging pandemic, resistance from local officials in
Florida and deadlines for items like hotel payments, Mr. Trump chose to
cancel the convention in an effort to cast himself as putting safety
first.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/24/us/politics/24GOP-CONVENTION/merlin_174883425_e059ad0d-c7f0-4a89-99e9-2d1e5e7a3ca5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-patricia-mazzei/author-patricia-mazzei-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia Mazzei}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 24, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Follow our latest coverage of}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{\emph{the
Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

WASHINGTON --- Like so much else in President Trump's life, it was a
decision shaped by financial considerations and, in the end, the hotel
business.

Mr. Trump's abrupt cancellation of the Republican National Convention in
Jacksonville, Fla. --- a big celebration in a battleground state that he
hoped would buoy his re-election campaign --- surprised some allies,
donors and even aides who weren't expecting the announcement then, which
he attributed to Florida's soaring rate of coronavirus cases.

But the timing of Mr. Trump's decision on Thursday night was influenced
by the imminent need for the Republican Party to book an enormous number
of hotel rooms in Jacksonville and sign other costly service agreements,
according to multiple Republicans familiar with the plans. The looming
deadline for attendees to make deposits on hotel rooms was next Monday,
according to a copy of instructions mailed to delegates.

If party officials proceeded to make those reservations and cancel them
later, people familiar with the planning said, it would have added
financial losses to an already expensive fiasco involving two cities ---
Jacksonville and Charlotte, N.C., where the convention was originally
set --- and two sets of donors raising money in both places.

There were other urgent factors involved in the decision, including the
health of party officials and delegates coming from across the country,
and Mr. Trump's sinking political standing, which was largely
attributable to months of inattentiveness to the virus. It had become
increasingly apparent in recent days that Jacksonville organizers were
facing open resistance from local officials and that the city's
Republican mayor, Lenny Curry, once a champion of the convention, was
too tied up with virus concerns to cheerlead much for it.

Faced with all that tumult, Mr. Trump chose instead to cancel the
convention in an effort to cast himself as putting safety first.

But many of Mr. Trump's top political advisers had already become
convinced that the convention stood a better chance of generating
embarrassing news stories --- like his recent, unsuccessful rally in
Tulsa, Okla. --- than a bounce in the polls. In a series of recent
conversations with Mr. Trump, they made it clear that he could still
pull out, with minimal repercussions, according to people familiar with
the discussions.

In the White House on Friday, officials were already mapping out how to
generate the political momentum they were hoping to receive after three
nights of speeches in Jacksonville. One senior official said internal
data showed that the most movable voters were network morning show
viewers, and that the next 100 days would involve a heavy media
strategy, with Mr. Trump doing more interviews on network morning shows,
as well as Sunday shows, while still prioritizing interviews on Fox
News.

The party on Friday was also looking for a new location where it could
build a stage and host some of the planned convention programming,
including Mr. Trump's acceptance speech on Aug. 27, which he still plans
to give.

Another White House official warned that the events would be
significantly scaled back from what had been planned for Jacksonville,
but that the schedule for officials with speaking slots over the course
of the convention would most likely not change.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The cancellation of the convention was a reversal that Mr. Trump only
recently settled on. But it was an exit strategy that many of his top
advisers had been keeping as an option.

Since moving the convention to Jacksonville from Charlotte in June,
Republican officials held off on executing contracts with the city and
the convention venue, leaving themselves flexibility to pull out. Mark
Meadows, the White House chief of staff, had been advising Mr. Trump
that he should move forward as though he was going to have a convention,
while leaving himself an off ramp.

State Senator Rob Bradley, a member of the R.N.C. host committee in
Jacksonville, acknowledged on Friday that organizers were facing
deadlines from major vendors, including hotels.

``It was reaching the point where calls needed to be made so that people
could plan accordingly and that financial obligations would not be
secured that couldn't be met from vendors,'' he said in an interview.

Last weekend, with those deadlines looming, and with local officials
warning they did not have the resources to provide adequate security for
the event, top campaign officials decided to brief the president one
more time on his options, emphasizing his ability to walk away, people
familiar with the discussions said.

Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee;
Bill Stepien, the Trump campaign manager; and Jason Miller, the
campaign's chief strategist, maintained a public position of supporting
whatever Mr. Trump chose to do, and cheerfully proclaiming that the show
would go on.

But most of the president's top political advisers, worried that the
safety risks from the virus could cause the event to backfire, were in
favor of canceling the entire four-day affair in Florida. (The first
day's events are being held in Charlotte.)

Inside the White House, there has been growing skepticism that any
large-scale gathering could work, given the rise in coronavirus cases.
Fueling those concerns were memories of the campaign's disastrous rally
in Tulsa, where Mr. Trump and his aides hyped the turnout only to find
themselves speaking in front of an arena that was two-thirds empty. News
that several campaign staff members had tested positive for the virus in
Tulsa only added to the negative impression the rally created.

Aides have instead been trying to get Mr. Trump excited about tele-town
halls, showing him that he could reach tens of thousands of people in a
particular region without forcing them to leave their homes.

As the prospect of canceling the convention looked more and more likely
to the small group of aides clued in, over the past few days, one White
House official raised the question of sending inconsistent messages,
asking how the president could continue pushing for schools to reopen if
he was backing down from holding his own convention. Other aides,
however, said opening schools was essential, and a mass gathering of
Trump supporters --- the majority of whom would be over 50 --- was not,
the people familiar with the discussions said.

Mr. Trump, officials said, was leaning toward changing his mind by
Wednesday. That night, Ms. McDaniel, Mr. Stepien and Mr. Miller had a
follow-up conversation among themselves and agreed that it seemed likely
that the president would decide to shut it down after all, and began
preparing for that outcome. But many of them have been operating in Mr.
Trump's orbit long enough to know that nothing is settled until the
president himself makes his decision public.

For weeks, as the pandemic continued to spike in Florida, aides had
presented Mr. Trump alternative scenarios. One plan discussed, according
to someone involved in the conversations, was having three nights of the
convention take place in different cities: the first lady, Melania
Trump, would speak from Houston; Vice President Mike Pence would address
a crowd in his home state, Indiana; and only Mr. Trump's speech would
take place in Jacksonville.

Proponents of that plan said a roving convention could have been spun as
a powerful message about the country reopening everywhere, with the
bonus of avoiding a single large crowd gathering together for four full
days in one city.

How the two parties were approaching their conventions had become a
litmus test for their views of the pandemic over all. Focusing on
safety, Democrats have encouraged all members of Congress, party leaders
and delegates not to attend the event. Mr. Trump, in contrast, wanted to
forge ahead with a raucous, flag-waving celebration that would show
great enthusiasm for his struggling campaign and prove that the country
was roaring back from the worst of the pandemic.

In the end, though, the dissolution of Mr. Trump's convention was the
latest example of the president bowing to the realities of a health
crisis that shows no signs of abating, and the limits of his abilities
to bend events to his will.

Some Republicans described a private sense of relief that Mr. Trump had
not decided to forge ahead. Yet there was also frustration on Friday
that the convention saga had dragged on so long, costing the party
valuable time and money that was used in a fruitless attempt to satisfy
Mr. Trump's desire.

The lack of a convention represented a ``missed opportunity'' for the
G.O.P. to boost itself in a key swing state, said Art Pope, an
influential Republican donor in North Carolina. Mr. Pope lamented that
the gathering had been uprooted from his own state, but acknowledged the
pandemic might have made cancellation inevitable.

``I had already decided I wasn't going either to the Charlotte
convention or the Florida convention,'' he added.

Mr. Trump hasn't abandoned his Florida plans altogether, however. He has
fund-raisers scheduled for July 31 in Tampa and Aug. 1 in South Florida.
Donors who contribute \$50,000 were promised photos with the president,
and those who give \$100,000 were told they would be able to participate
in a round table with him.

Before Mr. Trump's convention announcement, Mr. Curry, the Jacksonville
mayor, had asked Tommy Hazouri, the City Council president, to postpone
a meeting on Friday to discuss an emergency ordinance regarding
convention funding and logistics.

``They weren't ready,'' said Mr. Hazouri, a Democrat. ``They didn't have
the answers, and they didn't want to be embarrassed.''

Mr. Hazouri assumed that Mr. Curry wanted to buy time over the weekend
``to try to get answers, but also find out where everything stood
nationally.''

``I think, quite frankly, that something was in the hopper, because I
don't know that the president woke up one day and said, `I have to worry
about the virus,''' Mr. Hazouri said. ``Nevertheless, I'm thankful for
what he did.''

Maggie Haberman and Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
