Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}Netflix Breaks
HBO's Record for the Most Emmy Nominations Ever

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P0EOd1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{netflix-breaks-hbos-record-for-the-most-emmy-nominations-ever}{%
\section{Netflix Breaks HBO's Record for the Most Emmy Nominations
Ever}\label{netflix-breaks-hbos-record-for-the-most-emmy-nominations-ever}}

``Watchmen'' earned 26 nominations, the most of any show, and the
Television Academy gave newcomers Disney+ and Apple TV+ their first
nods.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-koblin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-john-koblin/author-john-koblin-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-koblin}{John Koblin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-371a3cd4}{Netflix and ``The Mandalorian'' show
  the might of streamers.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-4832be22}{Best actress in a drama stacked up
  to be one of the most competitive categories.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-70dd8295}{`Mrs. America' duels `Watchmen.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-55c82a59}{Will it be a remote ceremony, or
  what?}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-75cb73af}{James Corden, Seth Meyers and Jimmy
  Fallon were all snubbed in the talk show category.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/arts/28emmys-livebriefing-mandalorian/merlin_165072840_37bdcc4c-cdef-42e6-8e88-15a2b7f9d5c4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{netflix-and-the-mandalorian-show-the-might-of-streamers}{%
\subsection{Netflix and ``The Mandalorian'' show the might of
streamers.}\label{netflix-and-the-mandalorian-show-the-might-of-streamers}}

Netflix dominated the 72nd
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/emmy-awards}{Emmy}
Award nominations on Tuesday, breaking the record for the most
nominations ever, and a newcomer to the streaming universe, Disney+,
scored a nomination in a big category for ``The Mandalorian'' in yet
another sign of the growing importance of digital technology to
Hollywood.

A longtime Emmy champion, HBO, remained a force: ``Watchmen,'' the cable
network's innovative spin on a difficult-to-adapt superhero graphic
novel, led all shows with 26 nominations. Amazon's ``The Marvelous Mrs.
Maisel,'' an Emmy favorite, came in second, with 20.

Netflix smashed the record for most nominations of any network, studio
or streaming platform, with 160, breaking the record set last year by
HBO. HBO came in second, with 107 nominations. The next closest
competitor, NBC, had 47.

Netflix and HBO have waged hard-fought battles against each other at the
Emmys in recent years, and the Tuesday announcement marked the second
time that Netflix had bested HBO in the total number of nominations. The
two entertainment giants are these days competing even more directly,
now that HBO's parent company, AT\&T, unveiled the ambitious streaming
service HBO Max in May.

With an Emmy stalwart, ``Game of Thrones,'' finally out of the
competition after a nearly decade-long run, the best drama race was open
to newcomers and other programs that have yet to win big. HBO's operatic
family saga, ``Succession,'' Netflix's
\href{https://deadline.com/2020/04/ozark-season-3-ratings-netflix-1202915140/}{more-popular-by-the-day}
crime series ``Ozark'' and Netflix's lush period piece about Queen
Elizabeth II, ``The Crown,'' all scored nominations in the category.

``The Handmaid's Tale,'' the Hulu show that was voted best drama in
2017, also received a nomination, although
\href{https://www.metacritic.com/tv/the-handmaids-tale/critic-reviews?sort-by=date\&num_items=100}{some
critics were cool} to its third season, which premiered more than a year
ago.

And there was a surprise nod in the best drama category for the Disney+
series, ``The Mandalorian,'' the Baby Yoda sensation that made its debut
on the Walt Disney Company's multibillion-dollar streaming service in
November 2019. The ``Star Wars'' spinoff scored 15 nominations overall.

The top show for Apple --- another recent entrant in the streaming wars
--- was the AppleTV+ series ``The Morning Show.'' The big-budget
backstage drama received acting nominations for Jennifer Aniston, Billy
Crudup, Mark Duplass, Martin Short and Steve Carell.

On the comedy side, Pop TV's ``Schitt's Creek,'' which has attracted a
wider audience since it started streaming on Netflix, received 15
nominations for its final season.

Amazon's ``The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,'' the 2018 best comedy winner, is
also in the mix. It will compete in the best comedy category against
Netflix's ``Dead to Me,'' NBC's ``The Good Place,'' FX's ``What We Do in
the Shadows,'' Netflix's ``The Kominsky Method'' and two HBO shows,
``Insecure'' and ``Curb Your Enthusiasm.''

Image

Regina King as Sister Night in HBO's ``Watchmen.'' The role earned her
an Emmy nomination for best actress in a limited series or a television
movie on Tuesday.Credit...Mark Hill/HBO

The envelopes are scheduled to be unsealed on Sept. 20 during a ceremony
broadcast by ABC and hosted by Jimmy Kimmel.

Filmed remotely because of the coronavirus pandemic, the ``Saturday
Night Live'' alum Leslie Jones hosted the announcements on Tuesday, and
there were more nominations than ever this time around.

At a time when the number of television series has hit a high --- there
were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/09/business/media/tv-shows-2020.html}{more
than 500 last year}--- the number of Emmy submissions rose by 15
percent, and the academy expanded the number of nominees. Television
Academy members will cast their votes between Aug. 21 and Aug. 31.

\hypertarget{best-actress-in-a-drama-stacked-up-to-be-one-of-the-most-competitive-categories}{%
\subsection{Best actress in a drama stacked up to be one of the most
competitive
categories.}\label{best-actress-in-a-drama-stacked-up-to-be-one-of-the-most-competitive-categories}}

Image

Olivia Colman in ``The Crown.''Credit...Sophie Mutevelian/Netflix, via
Associated Press

Of all the acting categories, best actress in a drama was the most
star-studded.

Olivia Colman's turn as Queen Elizabeth II in ``The Crown'' scored a
nomination on Tuesday --- and an Emmy win would make a nice to
complement to the Golden Globe she has already won for the role, not to
mention the Oscar she took home in 2019 for her portrayal of Queen Anne
in ``The Favourite.''

The four-time Emmy winner Laura Linney, a star of ``Ozark,'' also landed
a nomination, as did Aniston, who plays an overwhelmed news anchor on
``The Morning Show.'' For the ``Friends'' star, it was her first
nomination in 11 years. (She was last nominated for a guest appearance
on ``30 Rock.'')

Last year's winner, Jodie Comer, a star of AMC's ``Killing Eve,'' is
also a contender for the prize, as is her cast mate Sandra Oh, who has
yet to win an Emmy. Zendaya received her first Emmy nomination for HBO's
``Euphoria.''

Just how competitive is this category? Snubs included Reese Witherspoon
for ``The Morning Show,'' Nicole Kidman for ``Big Little Lies,'' Viola
Davis for ``How To Get Away With Murder'' and Elisabeth Moss for ``The
Handmaid's Tale.''

\hypertarget{mrs-america-duels-watchmen}{%
\subsection{`Mrs. America' duels
`Watchmen.'}\label{mrs-america-duels-watchmen}}

Image

Cate Blanchett, right, as Phyllis Schlafly in ``Mrs.
America.''Credit...FX

The limited series category has become the Emmy ceremony's most
glamorous and intriguing, given its major stars and blockbuster budgets
invested by cable networks and streaming companies into single short
seasons.

This year's contest will be a showdown between two ambitious programs
that tackled social issues:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/arts/television/mrs-america-review.html}{``Mrs.
America,''} the drama from FX and Hulu created by Dahvi Waller that
chronicles the battle over the Equal Rights Amendment, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/16/arts/television/watchmen-finale.html}{``Watchmen,''}
which was created by Damon Lindelof.

The other nominees in the category were Netflix's ``Unbelievable,'' one
of the streamer's most popular
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/17/business/media/netflix-top-ten-movies-tv-shows.html}{original
series in 2019}, along with another Netflix series, ``Unorthodox,'' and
Hulu's ``Little Fires Everywhere.''

The best actress in a limited series race looks like it will be a battle
between Cate Blanchett, who plays the conservative firebrand Phyllis
Schlafly in ``Mrs. America,'' and Regina King, the masked hero of
``Watchmen.''

Kerry Washington was also nominated for ``Little Fires Everywhere,''
along with Octavia Spencer for Netflix's ``Self-Made'' and Shira Haas
for Netflix's ``Unorthodox.''

\hypertarget{will-it-be-a-remote-ceremony-or-what}{%
\subsection{Will it be a remote ceremony, or
what?}\label{will-it-be-a-remote-ceremony-or-what}}

Image

Leslie Jones presenting the nominations on Tuesday.Credit...The
Television Academy, via Associated Press

Here's what we know for sure about the Emmys ceremony: ABC will put on
the telecast, and its late night personality, Jimmy Kimmel, will return
as the show's host for a third time.

And that's about it.

Will it be virtual? Will it be live? Will the winners deliver acceptance
speeches via Zoom?

What even \emph{is} an awards show ceremony in the middle of a pandemic?

The Television Academy has provided little information --- but with
ratings for
\href{https://www.espn.com/mlb/story/_/id/29532370/mlb-opener-was-most-viewed-regular-season-game-2011}{live
television events surging} in recent months, a charmingly makeshift
awards night could be just the thing to reignite interest in the Emmys.

The weirdness was apparent during the announcements on Tuesday, when Ms.
Jones played the host from a studio and introduced her remote
co-presenters Laverne Cox, Josh Gad and Tatiana Maslany. The chairman of
the Television Academy, Frank Scherma, kicked off the ceremony from what
appeared to be a basement room with cinder block walls.

Last year, the Emmys broadcast
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/23/business/media/emmy-ratings.html}{hit
a low} in the ratings, with an audience of 6.9 million.

\hypertarget{james-corden-seth-meyers-and-jimmy-fallon-were-all-snubbed-in-the-talk-show-category}{%
\subsection{James Corden, Seth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon were all snubbed
in the talk show
category.}\label{james-corden-seth-meyers-and-jimmy-fallon-were-all-snubbed-in-the-talk-show-category}}

Image

John Oliver's ``Last Week Tonight'' has won the talk show category four
years in a row.Credit...Lloyd Bishop/HBO, via Associated Press

What do James Corden, Seth Meyers and Jimmy Fallon all have in common?

Snubbed. Snubbed. Snubbed.

Corden, the CBS late-night host who follows Stephen Colbert, had been a
mainstay in the talk show category in recent years. On Tuesday he was
left out, partly because of a rule change that winnowed the category's
nominees from six to five. Fallon, the NBC host, was ignored by Emmy
voters in the category for a fourth consecutive year.

John Oliver's ``Last Week Tonight,'' which has won the category four
years in a row, was nominated once again. Oliver will compete against
Trevor Noah's ``The Daily Show,'' Samantha Bee's ``Full Frontal,'' Mr.
Colbert's ``The Late Show'' and ``Jimmy Kimmel Live!'' Emmy voters will
take into account how they handled putting on shows from their homes
during lockdown.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
