Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}Emmys: Our Critics
on `Watchmen,' `Maisel' and, Yes, `Tiger King'

\url{https://nyti.ms/334FvKS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{emmys-our-critics-on-watchmen-maisel-and-yes-tiger-king}{%
\section{Emmys: Our Critics on `Watchmen,' `Maisel' and, Yes, `Tiger
King'}\label{emmys-our-critics-on-watchmen-maisel-and-yes-tiger-king}}

This year brought bounties for ``Watchmen'' (hooray) and ``The Marvelous
Mrs. Maisel'' (again?), but should TV even be celebrating itself as a
pandemic rages on?

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/arts/28EMMYS-CONVO2/merlin_163951620_f1b96611-35ce-463f-9f90-41787acd5e33-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/james-poniewozik}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-james-poniewozik/author-james-poniewozik-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margaret-lyons}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-margaret-lyons/author-margaret-lyons-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/james-poniewozik}{James
Poniewozik} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/margaret-lyons}{Margaret
Lyons}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{The 2020 Primetime Emmy nominations were announced on Tuesday.
James Poniewozik and Margaret Lyons, two television critics for The New
York Times, conducted a brief conversation about puzzling picks and
oversights, the rise of the limited series and what a virtual Emmy
ceremony would --- or should --- even look like.}

\textbf{JAMES PONIEWOZIK} So it's still unclear what sort of TV we will
have, or be making, in the fall, but we will at least have Emmys. Which
is where I feel I should kick this off.

I care a lot about TV. I have a harder time caring about TV
\emph{awards} even ** in the best of years. And this, you may have
noticed, is not the best of years! I'm really dubious about the idea of
an awards gala while the industry is still largely shut down (among
other, more consequential things).

That said, I also care about the people who care about TV, the people
who make it and the people who watch it. If this helps them --- and us
--- get through all of this a little more happily until we come out the
other side, that's something.

\textbf{MARGARET LYONS} I guess, though I wonder if awards show
enthusiasm should get categorized with pinchy shoes, tedious grooming
regimens and pointless commutes --- I get why we did it, but we're not
going back to that. We have a chance to do things another way! I love
TV, too, but there's not a straight line between that and thinking the
Emmys are a worthy pursuit. Anyway, no Rhea Seehorn, what a shame.

\textbf{PONIEWOZIK} As for the nominations themselves: I have probably
said before that limited series have taken the cultural spot from TV
movies, a category that's almost an afterthought now. But looking at the
nominees this year --- not to mention what
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/arts/television/normal-people-review.html}{wasn't}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/13/arts/television/review-netflix-unbelievable.html}{nominated}
--- arguably they are also stealing the heat of drama series too.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/arts/28EMMYS-CONVO1/merlin_170790141_89ab6231-39ba-4928-aa5b-410264192d10-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

You look, for instance, at ``Mrs. America,'' a historical drama from a
writer of ``Mad Men'' that took some of that show's themes of feminism
(and the reaction to it) forward another decade. ``Watchmen,'' arguably
the show of the season well before the George Floyd protests underlined
its relevance, a one-off season from Damon Lindelof of ``Lost'' and
``The Leftovers.'' I was also glad to see a nomination for
``Unorthodox,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/25/arts/television/unorthodox-review-netflix.html}{which
I loved} but was afraid was too quiet to get notice. American TV is
really discovering the power of the one-and-done.

(And yep: I am \emph{extremely} Kim-Wexler-yells-at-Howard.gif over
Seehorn's omission.)

\textbf{LYONS} Yeah, last year we both thought that the limited series
category was better than the drama category, and this year \ldots{} that
might be true again, partially because lots of great dramas did not get
nominations. I know we both love
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/arts/television/david-makes-man-hbo-max.html}{``David
Makes Man,''} and I was surprised that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/09/arts/television/the-good-fight-premiere.html}{``The
Good Fight''} didn't get any traction. I don't understand who thinks
this season of ``Handmaid's Tale'' was good. On the variety sketch
front, how can
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/23/arts/television/south-side-shermans-showcase-review.html}{``Sherman's
Showcase''} and ``At Home with Amy Sedaris'' be shut out? This process
is not healing me during quar! It is angering me, or at least making me
wonder what people are getting from ``Mrs. Maisel'' that I am definitely
not.

\textbf{PONIEWOZIK} There's always an inertia issue with the Emmys, so
for instance I guess ``Handmaid's'' has locked in the ``important and
relevant'' niche in the minds of voters, however much it turns into an
erratic dystopian roller coaster. Maybe ``The Good Fight'' suffered from
having an incomplete season? (I only hope the voters were paying that
much attention.) ``Pose'' deserved the ``Handmaid's'' spot for its even
stronger second season. ``Sherman's'' deserved to be in a category that
weirdly had a grand total of three nominees --- and I would love to see
the talk category add some new blood, like a ``Patriot Act'' or ``Desus
and Mero.''

On a positive note, I always like to see credit due for great
performances in less-great shows. I
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/30/arts/television/the-morning-show-apple.html}{did
not love} ``The Morning Show,'' but Jennifer Aniston's portrait of a
pressured, morally compromised star was terrific. (Steve Carell's shouty
co-star turn, less so.) ``Black Monday'' is just a solid B show for me,
but I do love Don Cheadle's swaggery energy in it. But man, while I'm
turning to comedies, Pamela Adlon should file an insurance claim for the
robbery that ``Better Things'' suffered.

Image

``The Morning Show'' on Apple TV+ received eight nominations, including
one for Jennifer Aniston for best actress in a drama.Credit...Frank
Masi/Apple

\textbf{LYONS} ``Better Things'' deserves, yep, better. ``Lodge 49''
getting shut out is a bummer --- I wasn't expecting it to clean up, but
it was entered as a comedy, and I think there's room in those categories
for, oh, less ``Kominsky Method.'' I am delighted to see ``What We Do In
the Shadows'' do so well, though. I like comedies that make me laugh,
not just think ``oh, that's funny,'' or ``how clever'' ---~ you know,
the surprise and joy of true laughter! What a comedy can sometimes
elicit!

If I had one wish, I'd wish that ``BoJack Horseman,'' which was
nominated for best animated program, gets the ``uh oh, it's your last
season, and even though it was not the best season of the show, how can
we let it go by completely? Oh, what fools we've been'' win, like Kyle
Chandler finally getting an Emmy for ``FNL.''

\textbf{PONIEWOZIK} Even at that, a ``BoJack'' win will still be shunted
off to the side, because of its category, when what it has actually been
for six seasons was one of TV's best \emph{comedies}. The Emmys often
feel a little tangential to the TV conversation of the moment ---
especially in terms of the categories that get prime-time attention.

This wasn't the case with ``Watchmen,'' of course, but I read an
interesting
\href{https://www.latimes.com/entertainment-arts/tv/story/2020-07-27/emmys-2020-nominations-tiger-king-the-last-dance-cheer-mcmillions}{L.A.
Times piece} noting how the Emmys seems not to know what to do with
documentary series --- despite how much bandwidth shows like ``The Last
Dance'' take up. Even as someone who ultimately didn't like ``Tiger
King'' (he's weird, we get the point), it does feel like one space where
the Emmys are overlooking where TV is in 2020. (While devoting a lot of
attention to ``Dead to Me.'')

\textbf{LYONS} ``Tiger King'' got seven nominations. Is that really
overlooked? I will probably be stewing over snubs for a few more days
--- ``Never Have I Ever,'' ``High Maintenance,'' ``My Favorite Shapes,''
I honor you in my own ways --- but maybe it's also time to be curious
about what the actual Emmy ceremony will or should be. Calling in to a
Zoom or whatever to lose an award feels incredibly stupid, but avoiding
dumb things is not our culture's forte.

\textbf{PONIEWOZIK} I get the ``The show must go on'' spirit. But a lot
of things \emph{aren't} going on now, with good reason, and maybe the
Emmys should be one of them. I don't want to deny anyone their awards!
(Send them FedEx!) But a virtual Emmys, without the crowd dynamics that
the acceptance speeches thrive on, might just uncomfortably remind us of
everything that's missing.

But I reserve the right to be surprised by an ingenious production idea.
Maybe they can find a way to hold the whole thing inside ``Animal
Crossing.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
