Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review}{Book
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}The 10 Best Books of
2019

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D6wfaC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-10-best-books-of-2019}{%
\section{The 10 Best Books of 2019}\label{the-10-best-books-of-2019}}

The editors of The Times Book Review choose the best fiction and
nonfiction titles this year.

Published Nov. 22, 2019Updated Nov. 25, 2019

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/culture/20191127/best-books/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/culture/20191127/best-books/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/23/books/review/best-books-still/best-books-still-square320.jpg}

\hypertarget{disappearing-earth}{%
\subsection{Disappearing Earth}\label{disappearing-earth}}

\hypertarget{by-julia-phillips}{%
\subsubsection{By Julia Phillips}\label{by-julia-phillips}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/books/best-books-2019/best-books-2019-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In the first chapter of this assured debut novel, two young girls
vanish, sending shock waves through a town perched on the edge of the
remote, brooding Kamchatka Peninsula. What follows is a novel of
overlapping short stories about the various women who have been affected
by their disappearance. Each richly textured tale pushes the narrative
forward another month and exposes the ways in which the women of
Kamchatka have been shattered --- personally, culturally and emotionally
--- by the crime.

\textbf{Fiction} \textbar{} Alfred A. Knopf. \$26.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/14/books/review/disappearing-earth-julia-phillips.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/14/books/review/podcast-underland-robert-macfarlane-disappearing-earth-julia-phillips.html}{Listen:
Julia Phillips on the podcast}

\hypertarget{the-topeka-school}{%
\subsection{The Topeka School}\label{the-topeka-school}}

\hypertarget{by-ben-lerner}{%
\subsubsection{By Ben Lerner}\label{by-ben-lerner}}

Image

Credit...

Lerner's exhilarating third novel, after ``Leaving the Atocha Station''
and ``10:04,'' rocks an emphatically American amplitude, ranging freely
from parenthood to childhood, from toxic masculinity to the niceties of
cunnilingus, from Freud's Oedipus complex to Tupac's ``All Eyez on Me.''
Adam Gordon returns as the protagonist, but this time as a high school
debate star, and mostly in the third person. Equal portions of the book
are given over to the voices of his psychologist parents, and to a
former classmate whose cognitive deficits are the inverse of Adam's
gifts. The earlier novels' questions about art and authenticity persist;
but Adam's faithlessness is now stretched into a symptom of a national
crisis of belief. Lerner's own arsenal has always included a composer's
feel for orchestration, a ventriloquist's vocal range and a fine
ethnographic attunement. Never before, though, has the latter been so
joyously indulged, or the bubblicious texture of late Clintonism been so
lovingly evoked.

\textbf{Fiction} \textbar{} Farrar, Straus \& Giroux. \$27. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/03/books/review/topeka-school-ben-lerner.html}{Read
the review}

\hypertarget{exhalation}{%
\subsection{Exhalation}\label{exhalation}}

\hypertarget{by-ted-chiang}{%
\subsubsection{By Ted Chiang}\label{by-ted-chiang}}

Image

Credit...

Many of the nine deeply beautiful stories in this collection explore the
material consequences of time travel. Reading them feels like sitting at
dinner with a friend who explains scientific theory to you without an
ounce of condescension. Each thoughtful, elegantly crafted story poses a
philosophical question; Chiang curates all nine into a conversation that
comes full circle, after having traversed remarkable terrain.

\textbf{Fiction} \textbar{} Alfred A. Knopf. \$25.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/29/books/review/new-science-fiction-time-travel.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/26/books/review/podcast-ted-chiang-exhalation-helen-phillips-need.html}{Listen:
Ted Chiang on the podcast}

\hypertarget{lost-children-archive}{%
\subsection{Lost Children Archive}\label{lost-children-archive}}

\hypertarget{by-valeria-luiselli}{%
\subsubsection{By Valeria Luiselli}\label{by-valeria-luiselli}}

Image

Credit...

The Mexican author's third novel --- her first to be written in English
--- unfolds against a backdrop of crisis: of children crossing borders,
facing death, being detained, being deported unaccompanied by their
guardians. The novel centers on a couple and their two children (all
unnamed), who are taking a road trip from New York City to the Mexican
border; the couple's marriage is on the brink of collapse as they pursue
independent ethnographic research projects and the woman tries to help a
Mexican immigrant find her daughters, who've gone missing in their
attempt to cross the border behind her. The brilliance of Luiselli's
writing stirs rage and pity, but what might one do after reading such a
novel? Acutely sensitive to these misgivings, Luiselli has delivered a
madly allusive, self-reflexive, experimental book, one that is as much
about storytellers and storytelling as it is about lost children.

\textbf{Fiction} \textbar{} Alfred A. Knopf. \$27.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/06/books/review/lost-children-archive-valeria-luiselli.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/07/arts/valeria-luiselli-lost-children-archive.html}{Read
our profile of Luiselli}

\hypertarget{night-boat-to-tangier}{%
\subsection{Night Boat to Tangier}\label{night-boat-to-tangier}}

\hypertarget{by-kevin-barry}{%
\subsubsection{By Kevin Barry}\label{by-kevin-barry}}

Image

Credit...

A desolate ferry terminal on the Spanish coast isn't a place where you'd
expect to encounter sharp-edged lyricism or rueful philosophy, but
thanks to the two Irish gangster antiheroes of Barry's novel, there's
plenty of both on display, along with scabrously amusing tale-telling
and much summoning of painful memories. Their lives have become so
intertwined that the young woman whose arrival they await can qualify as
family for either man. Will she show? How much do they care? Their
banter is a shield against the dark, a witty new take on ``Waiting for
Godot.''

\textbf{Fiction} \textbar{} Doubleday. \$25.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/books/review/night-boat-to-tangier-kevin-barry.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/27/books/review/podcast-samantha-power-education-idealist-craig-johnson-longmire.html}{Listen:
Kevin Barry on the podcast}

{[} \emph{Best books of the past decade:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/12/12/books/review/10-best-books-of-2010.html}{\emph{2010}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/12/11/books/10-best-books-of-2011.html}{\emph{2011}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/12/09/books/review/10-best-books-of-2012.html}{\emph{2012}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/12/15/books/review/the-10-best-books-of-2013.html}{\emph{2013}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/12/14/books/review/the-10-best-books-of-2014.html}{\emph{2014}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2015/12/02/books/review/best-books-of-2015.html}{\emph{2015}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/books/review/best-books.html?searchResultPosition=14}{\emph{2016}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/books/review/10-best-books-2017.html}{\emph{2017}}
\emph{\textbar{}}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/29/books/review/best-books.html}{\emph{2018}}
{]}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{say-nothing}{%
\subsection{Say Nothing}\label{say-nothing}}

\hypertarget{by-patrick-radden-keefe}{%
\subsubsection{By Patrick Radden Keefe}\label{by-patrick-radden-keefe}}

Image

Credit...

Masked intruders dragged Jean McConville, a 38-year-old widow and mother
of 10, from her Belfast home in 1972. In this meticulously reported book
--- as finely paced as a novel --- Keefe uses McConville's murder as a
prism to tell the history of the Troubles in Northern Ireland.
Interviewing people on both sides of the conflict, he transforms the
tragic damage and waste of the era into a searing, utterly gripping
saga.

\textbf{Nonfiction} \textbar{} Doubleday. \$28.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/22/books/review/say-nothing-patrick-radden-keefe.html}{Read
the review}

\hypertarget{the-club}{%
\subsection{The Club}\label{the-club}}

\hypertarget{by-leo-damrosch}{%
\subsubsection{By Leo Damrosch}\label{by-leo-damrosch}}

Image

Credit...

The English painter Joshua Reynolds just wanted to cheer up his friend
Samuel Johnson, who was feeling blue. Who knew that the Friday night gab
sessions he proposed they convene at London's Turk's Head Tavern would
end up attracting virtually all the leading lights of late-18th-century
Britain? Damrosch brings the Club's redoubtable personalities --- the
brilliant minds, the jousting wits, the tender camaraderie --- to vivid
life, delivering indelible portraits of Johnson and Reynolds, Edmund
Burke, Adam Smith, the actor David Garrick, the historian Edward Gibbon
and, of course, Johnson's loyal biographer James Boswell: ``a
constellation of talent that has rarely if ever been equaled.''

\textbf{Nonfiction} \textbar{} Yale University Press. \$30. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/05/books/review/leo-damrosch-club.html}{Read
the review}

\hypertarget{the-yellow-house}{%
\subsection{The Yellow House}\label{the-yellow-house}}

\hypertarget{by-sarah-m-broom}{%
\subsubsection{By Sarah M. Broom}\label{by-sarah-m-broom}}

Image

Credit...

In her extraordinary, engrossing debut, Broom pushes past the baseline
expectations of memoir to create an entertaining and inventive
amalgamation of literary forms. Part oral history, part urban history,
part celebration of a bygone way of life, ``The Yellow House'' is a full
indictment of the greed, discrimination, indifference and poor city
planning that led her family's home to be wiped off the map. Tracing the
history of a single home in New Orleans East (an area ``50 times the
size of the French Quarter,'' yet nowhere to be found on most tourist
maps, comprising scraps of real estate whites have passed over), from
the '60s to Hurricane Katrina, this is an instantly essential text,
examining the past, present and possible future of the city of New
Orleans, and of America writ large.

\textbf{Nonfiction} \textbar{} Grove Press. \$26. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/09/books/review/the-yellow-house-sarah-m-broom.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/30/books/review/podcast-christopher-ketcham-this-land.html}{Listen:
Sarah M. Broom on the podcast}

\hypertarget{no-visible-bruises}{%
\subsection{No Visible Bruises}\label{no-visible-bruises}}

\hypertarget{by-rachel-louise-snyder}{%
\subsubsection{By Rachel Louise Snyder}\label{by-rachel-louise-snyder}}

Image

Credit...

Snyder's thoroughly reported book covers what the World Health
Organization has called ``a global health problem of epidemic
proportions.'' In America alone, more than half of all murdered women
are killed by a current or former partner; domestic violence cuts across
lines of class, religion and race. Snyder debunks pervasive myths
(restraining orders are the answer, abusers never change) and writes
movingly about the lives (and deaths) of people on both sides of the
equation. She doesn't give easy answers but presents a wealth of
information that is its own form of hope.

\textbf{Nonfiction} \textbar{} Bloomsbury Publishing. \$28. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/07/books/review/rachel-louise-snyder-no-visible-bruises.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/07/books/review/podcast-no-visible-bruises-rachel-louise-snyder-queen-josh-levin.html}{Listen:
Rachel Louise Snyder on the podcast}

\hypertarget{midnight-in-chernobyl}{%
\subsection{Midnight in Chernobyl}\label{midnight-in-chernobyl}}

\hypertarget{by-adam-higginbotham}{%
\subsubsection{By Adam Higginbotham}\label{by-adam-higginbotham}}

Image

Credit...

Higginbotham's superb account of the April 1986 explosion at the
Chernobyl nuclear power plant is one of those rare books about science
and technology that read like a tension-filled thriller. Replete with
vivid detail and sharply etched personalities, this narrative of
astounding incompetence moves from mistake to mistake, miscalculation to
miscalculation, as it builds to the inevitable, history-changing
disaster.

\textbf{Nonfiction} \textbar{} Simon \& Schuster. \$29.95. \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/06/books/review-midnight-chernobyl-adam-higginbotham.html}{Read
the review} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/05/books/review/podcast-midnight-in-chernobyl-nuclear-accident-adam-higginbotham.html}{Listen:
Adam Higginbotham on the podcast}

\emph{{[} Want more?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/22/reader-center/inside-the-times-10-best-list.html}{\emph{Learn
how the editors put together this year's list}}\emph{. {]}}

\emph{Follow New York Times Books on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytbooks/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesbooks}{\emph{Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytbooks/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{, sign
up for}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/books-review}{\emph{our
newsletter}} \emph{or}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/books/books-calendar.html}{\emph{our
literary calendar}}\emph{. And listen to us on the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/book-review-podcast}{\emph{Book
Review podcast}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Produced by Lauryn Stallings

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
