Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Jacksonville, Trump's New
Convention Site, Will Now Require Face Masks

\url{https://nyti.ms/3igzcsw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jacksonville-trumps-new-convention-site-will-now-require-face-masks}{%
\section{Jacksonville, Trump's New Convention Site, Will Now Require
Face
Masks}\label{jacksonville-trumps-new-convention-site-will-now-require-face-masks}}

Republicans moved their national convention to Florida to avoid social
distancing measures and masks, but officials in Jacksonville are
mandating new precautions as coronavirus infections surge.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/29/us/politics/29jacksonville1/merlin_173380512_36439abe-7c1c-404b-88d0-cb4f2b85a09d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-patricia-mazzei/author-patricia-mazzei-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia Mazzei}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}\textbf{\textbf{Update}}:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{\emph{Trump
abruptly cancels Republican Convention in Jacksonville}}\emph{.{]}}

MIAMI --- Florida billed itself as a coronavirus oasis when it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-jacksonville-rnc-speech.html}{wooed
the Republican National Convention}: The pandemic seemed under control,
and Republican state and city leaders welcomed a major televised event
to show off the progress and cement votes for President Trump in the
nation's biggest presidential battleground.

That pitch collided with the grim reality of the coronavirus and its
explosive surge in Florida when Jacksonville, the convention's new host,
imposed a requirement on Monday that people wear masks indoors,
precisely the mandate that the Republican Party had hoped to avoid for
its celebrations.

The mask order is almost certain to rankle Mr. Trump, whose
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/06/us/politics/republican-convention-charlotte-2020.html}{demands
for a traditional, packed rally} forced the move earlier this month to
Jacksonville from Charlotte, N.C., in the first place.

The resurgence of the virus in Florida, where the number of new cases
has been rising nearly every day, has turned the convention into an even
riskier gamble. In a must-win state for Mr. Trump --- and arguably a
must-win city for Republicans --- recent polls have shown that
Jacksonville residents do not want the convention.

Masks will be required in indoor public places and in any other
gathering spots where social distancing is not possible, Jacksonville
officials said. It is unclear how long the mask order will be in place,
but it will presumably apply to the 15,000-seat VyStar Veterans Memorial
Arena, where three nights of convention speeches, including Mr. Trump's,
are scheduled for Aug. 24-27.

The president has refused to wear a mask himself, even as the nation's
top doctors have emphasized that facial coverings are critical to
slowing the virus. Vice President Mike Pence has recently worn masks in
public, including over the weekend in Texas, and encouraged other people
to do the same.

In a telling move, Mayor Lenny Curry, a Republican, who had lobbied for
the convention and resisted a mask requirement, was absent from Monday's
announcement. His spokeswoman said he had a prior family obligation.

``We are still two months out from that event,'' he said last week. ``In
the meantime, we have to focus on what's happening in the city and what
we can control.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/29/us/politics/29jacksonville2/merlin_174054141_83747d79-6293-448e-8d93-7fbcffc2ca93-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

His administration's policy reversal came after a morning conference
call with local hospitals. Duval County, which includes Jacksonville, is
now
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{averaging
about 384 new cases} of the virus a day. Two weeks ago, that figure was
32.

In a statement, the Republican National Committee said it would comply
``with local health regulations in place at the time.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``The event is still two months away, and we are planning to offer
health precautions including but not limited to temperature checks,
available P.P.E., aggressive sanitizing protocols, and available
Covid-19 testing,'' the statement said.

Mr. Trump did not immediately respond to the announcement. But as he has
pushed states to reopen their economies, he has shown an ability to bend
local regulations to his will. Officials in Tulsa, Okla.,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/19/us/politics/trump-tweet-tulsa-protests.html}{rescinded
a curfew ahead of the president's rally there} earlier this month after
Mr. Trump said on Twitter that he had discussed the curfew with the
mayor, a Republican.

Democrats say Republicans want to use the convention to shore up votes
in Northeast Florida.

``Jacksonville --- Duval County --- is a swing city in a swing state,''
said State Senator Audrey Gibson, the Democratic majority leader, who
represents the city. ``Duval County went blue in the last election. So
it's pretty obvious what this is about.''

In 2016, Mr. Trump won Duval County by a mere 5,968 votes, though
Hillary Clinton never campaigned there. In 2018, the county voted for
Andrew Gillum, a Democrat, for governor, though its surrounding suburbs
remained deeply red.

Jacksonville's broad television market includes Republican suburbs like
affluent St. Johns County, home to St. Augustine --- the type of place
where
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/16/us/can-democrats-win-back-florida.html}{Democrats
hope to win} over enough white, college-educated women to remain
competitive in November. Former President Barack Obama won Florida twice
in part by keeping vote margins close in Duval County. (For the
newcomers: It is pronounced ``DOO-val.'')

In addition to dealing with virus this year, Jacksonville has also
become a microcosm of how the nation has been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/13/us/george-floyd-racism-america.html}{forced
to confront systemic racism} in the wake of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/derek-chauvin-george-floyd-worked-together.html}{George
Floyd's killing}. African-Americans make up nearly a third of
Jacksonville's population of 912,000 but have been historically excluded
from power in local government.

That Jacksonville --- a city perennially overshadowed by Miami, Orlando
and Tampa that under normal circumstances might never have held a
convention --- gets its moment in the political spotlight while it
grapples with the virus and the unfulfilled promises to its
African-American residents has raised the stakes for local leaders. What
amounts to a massive campaign rally for a divisive president may only
lead to more contagion and unrest.

``As far as the R.N.C. is concerned, that took us a hundred steps
backwards,'' said Moné Holder, senior program director for New Florida
Majority, one of the social justice organizations that participated in
protests against police brutality. ``The powers that be try to paint it
as, `one city, one Jacksonville' --- I think that's the quote the mayor
likes to use --- but it's very, very divided, racially and
economically.''

Image

The number of new coronavirus cases has been rising nearly every day in
Florida.Credit...Malcolm Jackson for The New York Times

A online poll of 2,524 registered Duval County voters released last week
by the
\href{https://www.unf.edu/uploadedFiles/aa/coas/porl/JaxSpeaks0620.pdf}{Public
Opinion Research Lab} at the University of North Florida found that 58
percent of respondents opposed hosting the convention, with 71 percent
concerned that it would lead to virus spread, and 61 percent worried
that it would result in unrest. Only 39 percent approved of Mr. Trump's
performance in office.

But Mr. Trump has an affinity for Florida,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/31/us/politics/trump-new-york-florida-primary-residence.html}{his
adopted home}, and found an eager ally in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/us/coronavirus-florida-de-santis-trump.html}{Gov.
Ron DeSantis}, a Republican, who is said to have ambitions for higher
office. Mr. DeSantis has talked about the convention's ``massive
economic impact'' as its chief draw.

Even the governor, however, hedged a bit when asked about the convention
over the weekend, saying planning was underway during ``a dynamic
situation.''

``We always said, look, it's a work in progress. We're going to try to
get to yes,'' he said. ``I think we're going to be fine by then. It's a
couple of months away.''

On Monday, he maintained that local governments could act on their own
but he would not impose a statewide mask mandate.

Mr. Curry's opposition to requiring masks had drawn rare public
criticism from prominent members of the community, including Hugh
Greene, who ran the Baptist Health hospital system for two decades
before retiring last year. After Monday's announcement, Mr. Greene said
the convention should require facial coverings and social distancing.

``Anything that's good for the citizens of Jacksonville should apply to
those guests that come to the R.N.C., and we should make that clear in
advance,'' he said.

Florida has required visitors from states with high infection rates
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/25/us/coronavirus-united-states.html}{to
quarantine} for two weeks when they arrive. It is unclear if that order
would be lifted before the convention.

The last time Florida hosted a Republican convention, in 2012 in Tampa,
the party
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/27/us/politics/isaac-rewrites-script-for-republican-convention.html}{had
to shorten it because of Tropical Storm Isaac}, which later became a
hurricane. When Jacksonville
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2005/01/28/sports/football/jacksonville-prepares-to-welcome-the-world.html}{hosted
2005 Super Bowl}, it had to bring in cruise ships to supplement the
scarce number of downtown hotel rooms.

Mr. Trump is expected to accept his party's nomination on Aug. 27, 60
years to the day after one of Jacksonville's darkest days, when about
200 white supremacists led by the Ku Klux Klan brutally beat young civil
rights activists, most of them black, with baseball bats and ax handles.
One of the demonstrators on what became known as Ax Handle Saturday was
Rodney L. Hurst, who was 16 and president of the Jacksonville N.A.A.C.P.
Youth Council.

``We're going to have the commemoration of Ax Handle Saturday this year
with or without Donald Trump and the Republican National Convention
coming to town,'' said Mr. Hurst, 76.

In a move widely seen as politically expedient, two days before the
party announced Jacksonville as its pick, Mr. Curry ordered that a
prominent bronze statue of an anonymous Confederate solder
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/aponline/2020/06/09/us/ap-us-confederate-monument-florida.html}{be
taken down}, a step the mayor had been previously unwilling to take.

Representative Val B. Demings of Orlando, a contender to be
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.'s running mate}, said her parents tried to shield her and
her siblings from racism when they were growing up in Jacksonville, but
they experienced it anyway. While attending a newly integrated public
school in sixth grade, Ms. Demings befriended a white girl.

``When she asked her mother about me coming over, her mother said, `I'm
not going to have that N at my house,''' Ms. Demings said, referring to
a racial slur.

The challenge of confronting the virus and Jacksonville's racist history
while a national political convention comes to town has troubled the
city's business elite from the start, said Nate Monroe, metro columnist
for The Florida Times-Union newspaper, with the crush of new infections
only intensifying those concerns.

``Lenny Curry is not a man known for changing his mind very often,'' Mr.
Monroe said. ``I don't know what could possibly derail the convention.''

Annie Karni contributed reporting from Washington. Kitty Bennett and
Sheelagh McNeill contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
