Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Is Running on the
Courts Again. Should Biden Do the Same?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dInp31}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-is-running-on-the-courts-again-should-biden-do-the-same}{%
\section{Trump Is Running on the Courts Again. Should Biden Do the
Same?}\label{trump-is-running-on-the-courts-again-should-biden-do-the-same}}

President Trump's promises to evangelicals on judges were a key part of
shoring up support in 2016. Some Biden backers want to see him run on
the courts this time, too.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/26/us/politics/00judges1/merlin_172259451_9661c24e-13e7-4a34-8031-75d687666b9e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/02/multimedia/author-matt-flegenheimer/author-matt-flegenheimer-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-flegenheimer}{Matt
Flegenheimer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

President Trump this month celebrated the confirmation of his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/trump-senate-judges-wilson.html}{200th
lifetime appointment} to the federal bench, outpacing his predecessor by
dozens through three-and-a-half years.

Campaign supporters of Mr. Trump and Senator Mitch McConnell, the
Republican majority leader,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-mcconnell-campaigns-sell-back-to-back-supreme-court-champs-t-shirts/2019/08/12/29b3eb72-bd3f-11e9-a5c6-1e74f7ec4a93_story.html}{have
been urged to buy T-shirts} saluting the two men as ``Back-to-Back
Supreme Court Champs,'' their faces rendered in white silhouette with
``Gorsuch'' and ``Kavanaugh'' etched on the sleeves.

And four years after the battle over a court vacancy helped deliver Mr.
Trump to the White House, the president hopes to keep his job by playing
the hits: He has pledged to produce an updated roster of would-be
justices to galvanize the right before November,
\href{https://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/2020/june/exclusive-interview-with-president-trump-running-against-joe-biden-and-record-number-of-pro-life-judges}{warning}
that his Democratic opponent, Joseph R. Biden Jr., would nominate ``a
radical lefty'' as a slate of major cases returns the judiciary to the
political fore.

``Based on decisions being rendered now, this list is more important
than ever before,'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1273667868362768386}{wrote
on Twitter}. ``VOTE 2020!''

That message arrived well before the court's latest ruling to disappoint
conservatives on Monday:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/supreme-court-abortion-louisiana.html?action=click\&module=Alert\&pgtype=Homepage}{a
5-4 decision} striking down a law restricting abortions in Louisiana.

By their own account, Democrats have long found themselves outmaneuvered
in electoral fights over the courts.
\href{https://www.vox.com/2018/6/29/17511088/scotus-2016-election-poll-trump-republicans-kennedy-retire}{Exit
polls} from 2016 showed Mr. Trump winning by double digits among those
who called the Supreme Court the ``most important factor'' in their
vote.

Most memorably, Mr. Trump made the novel choice to publish a list of
prospective nominees, shaped by leaders from conservative groups like
the Federalist Society, supplying specificity (at least on this subject)
from a candidate prone to ideological shape-shifting.

``It gave certainty to people who didn't know the president --- and I
was one of them,'' said Penny Nance, the chief executive of Concerned
Women for America, a conservative Christian group. ``It was probably the
No. 1 issue when we looked at the polling of what brought conservatives
to the voting booth in 2016. I think it will be a top-of-mind issue,
certainly, in 2020.''

Trailing in the polls amid overlapping national crises that he has
strained to corral, Mr. Trump seems even more likely to place the
courts, an area of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/trump-appeals-court-judges.html}{unambiguous
conservative triumph}, at the center of his case for re-election.

Whether Democrats can harness their own enthusiasm on this score is at
once uncertain and potentially critical to election fortunes this fall,
both in the presidential race and several competitive Senate contests
where the Republican incumbents' Supreme Court votes might figure
prominently. (In Maine, Senator Susan Collins's support for Justice
Brett M. Kavanaugh in 2018 attracted wide-scale scrutiny --- and
\href{https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/10/6/17945900/susan-collins-speech-crowdpac-susan-rice}{millions
of dollars in donations} against her --- before she had an official
opponent.)

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Recent years have produced no shortage of seminal moments to mobilize
Democrats around matters of the judiciary: the confirmation of Justice
Kavanaugh; the non-confirmation of Judge Merrick B. Garland; the Supreme
Court's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/06/us/politics/supreme-court-voting-wisconsin-virus.html}{refusal
in April} to extend the deadline for absentee voting in Wisconsin during
a pandemic.

Still, some in the party sense an asymmetry in how urgently many
Democratic voters think about the courts.

``I do think it has picked up in visibility, but I don't think it moves
millions to the polls in the way that it really should,'' said Senator
Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware and a close Biden ally. ``That's the
challenge that remains before us.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/26/us/politics/00judges2/merlin_163869828_a184d4cb-d962-4734-af05-133b45f7cfcc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Progressives have suggested that Mr. Biden, the former vice president,
could prompt excitement by releasing his own list of preferred judges.
Some activists have urged him to embrace a proposal to expand the size
of the Supreme Court.

Mr. Biden has done neither, though he has promised to nominate a black
woman to the court and said that the judiciary was ``the single most
important reason'' that his wife, Jill, wanted him to run in 2020.

John Anzalone, a pollster and adviser for Mr. Biden, said that much of
the modern Democratic electorate plainly grasped the significance of the
courts.
\href{https://www.suffolk.edu/news-features/news/2020/04/28/18/13/poll-shows-voters-want-federal-government-more-involved-in-the-coronavirus-health-response}{A
Suffolk University/USA Today poll} in April found that Democrats were
slightly more likely than Republicans to call the Supreme Court one of
the most important issues affecting their vote.

``I do think that women --- college-educated women, suburban women ---
are without a doubt a much bigger part of our coalition,'' Mr. Anzalone
said. ``And they're much more awake to the ramifications of replacing a
Ruth Bader Ginsburg. That is real.''

Democrats had been bracing for possible disappointment in the Louisiana
abortion case, among other decisions pending before the end of this
court term.

But two high-profile rulings had already come as a pleasant surprise to
them: one holding that a landmark civil rights law
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/15/us/gay-transgender-workers-supreme-court.html}{protects
L.G.B.T.Q. employees from workplace discrimination} and another
preventing Mr. Trump from immediately proceeding with plans
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/18/us/trump-daca-supreme-court.html}{to
end a program shielding young immigrants from deportation}.

While welcoming the outcomes, activists have advised Democrats to beware
a conservative majority bearing gifts.

``The court's not evil 100 percent of the time,'' Meagan Hatcher-Mays,
the director of democracy policy at Indivisible, said before Monday's
decision. ``But they're evil, like, 94 percent of the time.''

Such successes can, paradoxically, register as something of a narrative
complication for those arguing that the court is stacked against the
left.

Brian Fallon, the executive director of Demand Justice, a progressive
group, suggested that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. understood as
much --- and was steering the court accordingly.

``These rulings are enough to convince a lot of people on the left that
they should continue to play within the system and not offend sitting
federal judges by calling them out as overly political,'' he said. ``In
some sense, that is the exact game that Roberts is playing: to side with
the liberals in just enough cases so the public misses the larger trend
of this court's rightward swerve.''

The chief justice has nonetheless angered many Republicans who appraise
his tenure as a failure, recalling him
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/29/us/supreme-court-lets-health-law-largely-stand.html}{siding
with the court's liberal wing} in cases challenging core provisions of
the Affordable Care Act. In the abortion ruling on Monday, he voted with
the liberal justices but did not adopt their reasoning, saying that
deference to precedent compelled him instead.

Some critics of Chief Justice Roberts hold high office: ``Do you get the
impression that the Supreme Court doesn't like me?'' Mr. Trump wrote on
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1273634152433188865}{Twitter}
this month.

Conservatives say that, if anything, the Roberts era has demonstrated
the need for Mr. Trump to fill vacancies for another four years.

``Frustration with the chief justice and concern about the direction the
courts were going was part of what galvanized conservatives in the first
place to elect someone like Trump,'' said Carrie Severino, president of
the conservative Judicial Crisis Network.

By prizing ``courage'' in addition to credentials, Ms. Severino said,
Mr. Trump's approach ``is almost designed to avoid a future John
Roberts,'' whom she accused of operating with politics in mind --- in
some ways echoing the charge of his progressive skeptics.

She also joined some liberal counterparts in calling for Mr. Biden to
release a list of potential nominees.

Many Biden supporters see little need for that step because, unlike Mr.
Trump in 2016, the former vice president has an exhaustive record on
judicial affairs, including an extended tenure as chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee.

Those close to Mr. Biden are rarely eager to dwell on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/25/us/politics/joe-biden-anita-hill.html}{the
treatment of Anita Hill} before his committee at the confirmation
hearings for Justice Clarence Thomas. But others cite
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/07/us/politics/joe-biden-bork-supreme-court.html}{his
work} to defeat the nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork in 1987 as a
towering feat for Democrats --- and a turning point for a chamber that
had previously been disinclined to reject a nominee for primarily
ideological reasons.

``I don't think there's ever been any president --- assuming Biden's
elected --- who knows as much about or has been as involved in shaping
the Supreme Court as Joe Biden,'' said Mark Gitenstein, who led Mr.
Biden's Judiciary Committee staff during the Bork fight.

And those who have doubted Mr. Biden in 2020, he added, were hardly the
first.

``The irony of the Bork fight is it's not unlike what you're seeing
now,'' Mr. Gitenstein said. ``People totally underestimated Biden.''

Giovanni Russonello contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
