Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Migrant
Workers, Poland, TikTok: Your Tuesday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/334Lijp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{migrant-workers-poland-tiktok-your-tuesday-briefing}{%
\section{Migrant Workers, Poland, TikTok: Your Tuesday
Briefing}\label{migrant-workers-poland-tiktok-your-tuesday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering the pandemic's impact on increasing \textbf{global
poverty,} Poland's government considering leaving \textbf{a domestic
violence treaty} and \textbf{French wine} becoming hand sanitizer.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/briefing/28ambriefing-euro-slide-C4OP/28ambriefing-euro-slide-C4OP-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{virus-cuts-a-cash-lifeline-for-migrants-families}{%
\subsection{Virus cuts a cash lifeline for migrants'
families}\label{virus-cuts-a-cash-lifeline-for-migrants-families}}

The pandemic has jeopardized a vital artery of global finance:
remittances\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/business/global-remittances-coronavirus.html}{sent
home to hundreds of millions of families by migrant workers} in wealthy
countries.

As the coronavirus has destroyed paychecks, migrant workers are sending
less money home, meaning it's near-certain that poverty from South Asia
and sub-Saharan Africa to Eastern Europe and Latin America will
increase. The World Bank estimates that the remittances are likely to
plunge by one-fifth this year --- the most severe contraction in
history.

That could result in the first global increase in poverty since the
Asian financial crisis of 1998.

\textbf{Quotable:} ``It's very tough times,'' said Flavius Tudor, a
worker in England who is being sent money by his 82-year-old mother in
Romania instead of the other way around. ``I'm lost.''

\textbf{Details:} Last year, the payments sent home totaled \$554
billion --- more than three times the amount of development aid
dispensed by wealthy countries, according to the World Bank. Over all,
the pandemic has damaged the earning power of 164 million migrant
workers who support at least 800 million relatives, according to one
United Nations estimate.

\textbf{Also:} A boat carrying 95 migrants on the Mediterranean
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/europe/migrant-boat-malta-stranded.html}{floated
adrift for 33 hours} before the Maltese authorities finally brought them
to shore under pressure from activists and nongovernmental groups. The
episode has raised questions about the danger of policies intended to
deter migrants from maritime journeys.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Britain} said on Monday it would
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/europe/uk-boris-johnson-coronavirus-obesity.html}{crack
  down on junk food advertising and introduce calorie counts} on menus
  in an effort to tackle obesity and ease the pressure on the country's
  National Health Service.
\item
  \textbf{Belgium's} prime minister reinstated strict social-distancing
  rules on Monday, saying she was taking aggressive steps to avoid
  another lockdown. Belgians are not to socialize with more than five
  people.
\item
  Evidence is suggesting that \textbf{masks}
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/health/coronavirus-mask-protection.html}{protect
  the people wearing them}, lessening the severity of symptoms, or in
  some instances, staving off infection entirely.
\item
  \textbf{Hong Kong} is
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu\#link-4947ccd3}{shutting
  down all dine-in restaurant service and limiting public gatherings to
  two people} after it recorded more than 100 new cases for the sixth
  day in a row.
\end{itemize}

Here are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{the
latest updates} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps
of the pandemic}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

A protest in Warsaw on Friday against the Polish government's plans to
withdraw from the Istanbul Convention.Credit...Wojtek Radwanski/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

\hypertarget{polands-government-considers-leaving-domestic-violence-treaty}{%
\subsection{Poland's government considers leaving domestic violence
treaty}\label{polands-government-considers-leaving-domestic-violence-treaty}}

The Polish government, emboldened by a narrow election victory this
month, is considering
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/europe/poland-domestic-violence-treaty.html}{leaving
a treaty aimed at curbing domestic violence and protecting women's
rights} --- with the country's minister of justice filing initial
paperwork on Monday.

The European treaty was intended to protect women from abuse and does
not mention gay rights issues, but it has become a target for populist
leaders who claim it poses a threat to ``traditional families.''

Any plan to withdraw will most likely face resistance, however. Even the
suggestion spurred thousands of protesters to the streets last weekend
and prompted alarm from the Council of Europe, a human rights
organization with 47 member states.

\textbf{Context:} The move came one week after European Union leaders
relaxed demands that were supposed to tie funding in the bloc's budget
to issues related with the rule of law. Since then, both Poland and
Hungary have pressed on with agendas that critics say compromise
judicial independence, media freedom and gay rights.

\textbf{Details:} The Polish government insisted that no decision has
been made, but Zbigniew Ziobro, the justice minister, said the treaty
had ``a second part, which concerns ideology and harms the interests of
women and of family.''

\hypertarget{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 7 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-7-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{heartbreak-as-french-wine-becomes-hand-sanitizer}{%
\subsection{Heartbreak as French wine becomes hand
sanitizer}\label{heartbreak-as-french-wine-becomes-hand-sanitizer}}

Image

Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

Between the coronavirus and the Trump tariffs, the French wine market
has collapsed. So that's why winemakers are --- sadly ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/europe/france-alsace-wine-coronavirus.html}{sending
their succulent wines off to become hand sanitizer}.

``We're producing more than we can sell,'' said Thibaut Specht, a
winemaker in the Alsace region. ``We have no choice.'' Above, a truck
picks up wine from Jérôme Mader.

Marion Borès's family business is sending 30 percent of its production
--- 19,000 liters --- to a distiller for conversion into alcohol for
sanitizer. ``It's like you are saying goodbye to somebody who is very
dear to you,'' she said.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Lebanon border fighting:} The Israeli military said Monday that
it had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/world/middleeast/israel-hezbollah-lebanon-fighting.html}{thwarted
a raid by Hezbollah in a disputed area} along its northern border with
Lebanon, resulting in an exchange of fire. No casualties were reported.
Hezbollah denied carrying out an operation.

\textbf{Google:} The tech giant has told its employees that they
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/27/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#google-will-let-employees-work-from-home-until-july-2021}{would
not be expected back at the office until mid-2021}, reflecting the
reality that no one can be sure how long the pandemic will last in the
U.S.

\textbf{Booker Prize:} Hilary Mantel and Anne Tyler are two of the 13
novelists announced Tuesday as competing for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/books/hilary-mantel-booker-prize-longlist.html}{the
British literary award}.

\textbf{In memoriam:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/world/europe/milos-jakes-dead.html}{Milos
Jakes}, a former Czech Communist leader who headed the party in a
tumultuous two years before being swept aside in 1989, has died at the
age of 97.

Image

Credit...Reef Chang

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, Chang Wan-ji, right, and Hsu Sho-er, the
octogenarian owners of a laundry in central Taiwan. The couple has
become
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/world/asia/taiwan-octogenarian-couple-instagram-laundry.html}{Instagram
stars for posing in garments left behind}.

\textbf{What we're listening to:} This
\href{https://newnaratif.com/podcast/youth-power-in-malaysian-politics/}{podcast
from New Naratif} about the role of young people in Malaysian politics.
It gives context about how nonprofit organizations and community
organizers are leading efforts to engage young people, through cultural
and systemic changes.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Christopher Testani for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Simon
Andrews.

\textbf{Cook:} These
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1020309-curry-chicken-breasts-with-chickpeas-and-spinach}{curry
chicken breasts with chickpeas and spinach} are an entire dish built for
flavor --- and ease.

\textbf{Dance:} Do you have itchy feet after all these months of
lockdown? Here are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/travel/cultural-dances-tutorials.html}{eight
cultural dances} that you can learn at home through online tutorials or
mobile dance apps. Take a look (or a spin).

\textbf{Watch:} In an era when viewers are re-evaluating cop shows,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/arts/television/columbo-watch.html}{``Columbo,''}
the detective series starring Peter Falk, still stands out. You can
catch the disheveled, cigar-smoking homicide detective free on several
streaming channels.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home has our
full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch, and do.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{spying-fears-and-tiktok}{%
\subsection{Spying fears and TikTok}\label{spying-fears-and-tiktok}}

\emph{Some U.S. officials worry that TikTok, the app owned by an
internet giant based in Beijing, could let China's government spy on
users or spread propaganda. Shira Ovide, host of our On Tech
newsletter,}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/technology/tiktok-data-privacy.html}{\emph{discussed
those concerns with Kevin Roose, a technology columnist}}\emph{. Here's
an excerpt from their conversation.}

\textbf{Shira: Let's start with TikTok. What are the legitimate concerns
about it?}

\textbf{Kevin:} Because TikTok is owned by a Chinese company, ByteDance,
it could be compelled to give the data it collects on people watching
videos to the Chinese government and abide by its censorship laws.

And let's be real, TikTok has done things in the past that contributed
to the sense of suspicion --- temporarily removing a viral video that
criticized the Chinese government's treatment of Uighur Muslims, for
example.

\textbf{Well, if TikTok is potentially dangerous because it's Chinese,
then isn't the solution to ban it or sell it to non-Chinese owners?}

An American-owned TikTok could still legally sell user data to a
third-party data broker, who could then sell it to the Chinese
government.

What you really need is a federal privacy law that applies to all
internet platforms operating in the United States, no matter whether
they're Chinese or American. If a big worry is data security, then this
is a useful moment to impose more rules for TikTok and everyone else on
how they're collecting and using information about us.

TikTok also plays an important role in American technology. It's
Facebook's only real competitor, and the creative culture there would be
a shame to lose.

Image

Credit...Daniel Zender

\textbf{Yes to more data regulation! What else?}

Another thing that makes TikTok powerful --- and potentially dangerous
--- is that the videos served to us are based on opaque algorithms that
we can't see or inspect. The U.S. government could demand more
transparency as a condition of allowing TikTok to continue operating.

Ideally, this should also apply to Facebook, Instagram and YouTube.
These algorithms shape our culture, politics and personal beliefs, and
we know basically nothing about how they work.

\textbf{Why all this talk about TikTok now? What changed?}

Right, we've been getting technology hardware from China for many years
with few complaints from regulators. I think what's new here is the
Trump administration's desire to appear tough on China.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. Explore
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/exploring-the-solar-system.html}{our
solar system}. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the rest of the break from the
news. You can reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
• We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is about mistakes made in New York at the
height of the pandemic there.\\
• Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: Beginning of an idea (four letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
• ``In ``Finish the Fight!,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/books/finish-the-fight-excerpt.html?smid=tw-nytbooks\&smtyp=cur}{excerpted
here}, New York Times journalists tell the stories of lesser-known women
of color who were part of the battle to give women the right to vote.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
