Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Headed to the Convention?
Not I, More Republicans Are Saying

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CBAga3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{headed-to-the-convention-not-i-more-republicans-are-saying}{%
\section{Headed to the Convention? Not I, More Republicans Are
Saying}\label{headed-to-the-convention-not-i-more-republicans-are-saying}}

``Everybody just assumes no one is going,'' said one House member wary
of the virus risks. But other delegates dismissed the health threat and
said it was an honor to help nominate President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/13/us/politics/13florida-convention/13florida-convention-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-patricia-mazzei/author-patricia-mazzei-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia
Mazzei}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}\textbf{\textbf{Update}}:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/politics/jacksonville-rnc.html}{\emph{Trump
abruptly cancels Republican Convention in Jacksonville}}\emph{.{]}}

Senators Roy Blunt of Missouri and Pat Roberts of Kansas are planning to
skip the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/republican-convention-jacksonville-virus-outdoors.html}{Republican
National Convention} next month as the host state of Florida deals with
the biggest outbreak of coronavirus cases in the nation.

Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart and Francis Rooney of Florida are
sticking with their plans not to attend, even though the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/politics/republican-convention-jacksonville-virus-outdoors.html}{convention}
is now in their home state.

Marco Rubio, Florida's senior senator, has not committed to attending.
Neither has John Thune of South Dakota, the second-ranking Senate
Republican, or Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the third-ranking
House Republican.

As new cases surge in Florida, including 15,300 reported on Sunday, more
Republicans are taking a wait-and-see approach to the event, or deciding
to skip it all together. The G.O.P., which moved the convention to
Jacksonville from Charlotte, N.C., after balking at health precautions
there, now finds itself locked into a state with a far bigger virus
problem, and planning an event whose attendance is waning as the
pandemic escalates.

``Everybody just assumes no one is going,'' said Representative Darin
LaHood of Illinois, an honorary state co-chairman for the Trump
campaign.

Mr. LaHood was one of eight House members --- from Illinois, New York,
Arizona, Indiana and Michigan --- who told The New York Times they did
not plan to attend, joining party veterans like Senators Charles E.
Grassley, Lamar Alexander and Susan Collins who have already said they
will skip the event.

President Trump, in the meantime, may not get the restriction-free
celebration he yearns for after all. The city of Jacksonville
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/us/politics/rnc-masks-convention.html}{is
requiring facial coverings} in any public space where social distancing
is not possible. And in a news release last week, the host committee
said every attendee within the convention perimeter ``will be tested and
temperature checked each day,'' without providing further details.

Still, even as growing numbers of elected leaders express wariness about
attending, a strong contingent of Republican National Committee members
--- many of whom have their political fortunes tied to Mr. Trump --- say
they still plan to go. In interviews, more than a dozen of them said
they were committed, even ``proud,'' to celebrate the renomination of
Mr. Trump.

A Times survey of almost 70 Republican officials and Senate and House
members showed a divide over the convention between the members of
Congress taking a more cautious approach, and rank-and file-officials,
like locally elected delegates and R.N.C. members, who were more
inclined to go.

The result may be a crowd that is far Trumpier than in 2016, when the
G.O.P. establishment, led by Speaker Paul D. Ryan, squelched its
misgivings and nominated Mr. Trump, an outsider with questionable
commitment to party orthodoxy.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T21:23:31.499Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-ab1004d}{Michigan's
  primary election sees a surge in absentee voting.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

This time, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House
minority leader who has tied himself closely to the president, is likely
to offer an enthusiastic endorsement, and other ardent supporters of Mr.
Trump, like Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, are likely to get
speaking slots.

``It's a risk you have to take,'' said Morton Blackwell, 80, an R.N.C.
member from Virginia who has attended every party convention since he
was the youngest elected delegate backing Barry Goldwater in 1964. ``You
take risks every day. You drive down the street and a cement truck could
crash into you. You can't not do what you have to do because of some
possibility of a bad result.''

As recently as two weeks ago, Republican convention planners appeared
bullish about attendance.

At a briefing for Senate chiefs of staff in late June, officials warned
that some lawmakers might have to stay in hotels outside of Jacksonville
given expected crowds. Party officials were considering docking cruise
ships in the city's port to provide extra lodging capacity, as the city
did during the 2005 Super Bowl, according to two people familiar with
the briefing. The proposal drew some laughter from congressional
staffers in attendance.

Since then, Florida has become the epicenter of the pandemic, raising
questions about whether Jacksonville could stage anything on the scale
of what Mr. Trump is demanding for his renomination.

Several of Mr. Trump's critics within his own party have already said
they do not plan to attend; among them are Senators Mitt Romney of Utah,
the party's 2012 presidential nominee, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Ms.
Collins of Maine, who faces a difficult re-election race this fall.

Mr. Roberts, 84, told reporters last week he would likely not be
attending because he had ``some things to do in Kansas'' and, in any
case, he ``didn't know what was canceled and what was not and
whatever.'' Mr. Roberts is retiring after this year.

Neither Mr. Blunt, Mr. Diaz-Balart nor Mr. Rooney attended the 2016
convention either, but as Mr. Trump has tightened his grip on the party,
he has become less forgiving to lawmakers he sees as disloyal or
insufficiently supportive.

Many other Republicans are expressing caution as the virus ravages the
South. Senator Mitch McConnell, who was a top-billed speaker at the
convention four years ago in Cleveland, has called the convention this
year ``a challenging situation.''

``We will have to wait and see how things look in late August to
determine whether we can safely convene that many people,'' he told
reporters in his home state of Kentucky last week.

Republican senators facing tough re-election battles declined to say
whether they planned to go. Aides to five of the six most vulnerable
Republicans on the ballot this fall --- Senators Martha McSally of
Arizona, Steve Daines of Montana, Joni Ernst of Iowa, Cory Gardner of
Colorado and Thom Tillis of North Carolina --- did not respond to
repeated inquiries about their plans.

Of 53 members of Congress surveyed by The Times who responded to
inquiries about their plans, roughly half said they definitely planned
to attend. Others either said they would not attend, or were closely
watching the situation to see what safety precautions convention
planners would put in place and where the caseload stood in North
Florida in mid-August. The convention is currently scheduled to take
place from Aug. 24-27.

Of the 15 R.N.C. members interviewed, all but one said they planned to
go to Jacksonville, with most also aiming to attend the party's official
business meetings in Charlotte, N.C.

The R.N.C. members expressed little concern about the virus's spread in
Florida, with some comparing the risk of attending a rally to shopping
at big-box stores.

The Republican approach differs significantly from the one Democrats are
taking for their convention;
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee-coronavirus.html}{last
month the party moved its event to a smaller venue} and instructed
delegates to stay home from Milwaukee, as the party transitions to a
virtual gathering.

The R.N.C. members have little sympathy for members of Congress who pass
on the convention. Party committee members have far more need to
demonstrate loyalty to Mr. Trump --- both for the president's approval
and for their own Trump-loving constituents --- than do members of
Congress skipping Jacksonville.

``It is not only my duty, but also my honor go to Charlotte and
Jacksonville to re-elect President Trump,'' said Art Wittich, an R.N.C.
member from Montana. ``As such, I am willing to assume any risk to do
so.''

Mr. Wittich said members of Congress who skip Jacksonville are
``probably avoiding the convention as a political statement rather than
as a legitimate public health concern. So be it.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/13/us/politics/13florida-convention-2/merlin_174054102_9ec1a261-981d-419d-a2ee-195dc76930b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump's chief defenders in Congress echoed that concern.

``Everyone in the media wants to act like it's some big deal that Susan
Collins and Lamar Alexander aren't going to the convention,'' said
Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida. ``The reality is the number of
delegates craving the octogenarians and septuagenarians of the Senate
are surely lower than the number who have purchased their third Star
Wars costume.''

Last month Mr. Trump moved most of the convention's proceedings from
Charlotte, N.C., to Jacksonville, Florida's largest city, because Gov.
Roy Cooper of North Carolina would not guarantee a late-August arena
gathering free of social distancing and mask-wearing. Several of the
R.N.C. members interviewed are planning to first go to Charlotte, where
the party's delegates will conduct much of their official business,
including voting on the party platform, before relocating to
Jacksonville for the big party desired by Mr. Trump.

Other party leaders in the House and Senate have yet to commit one way
or another, biding their time as they watch caseloads in Florida spike.

Besides Mr. Thune, Mr. Rubio and Ms. Cheney, others who are on the fence
include Senate Committee chairmen like Jim Risch of Idaho, Mike Enzi of
Wyoming and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin.

``Listen, I'm taking Covid seriously,'' said Mr. Johnson, 65, who is a
vocal ally of Mr. Trump. The senator told WISN-TV in Milwaukee that he
was looking at what precautions party officials would put in place, but
he was not sure ``whether I'd really have any use or not.''

The conditions that led Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/us/politics/trump-jacksonville-rnc-speech.html}{to
move the convention out of North Carolina} now apply equally to Florida.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/us/politics/rnc-masks-convention.html}{Jacksonville
officials late last month} said that city residents must wear face
masks, though there has been no word yet on restricting how many people
can fit inside the city's VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena. Republican
officials are also considering hosting some of the gatherings outdoors
at the city's football or minor-league baseball stadiums.

Nearly all of the R.N.C. members interviewed said they had little
hesitancy about joining a gathering of Trump supporters to cheer on his
nomination.

``If I can safely go to Walmart or a restaurant, I am confident we can
safely gather to conduct the important business of the Republican Party
renominating the president and vice president,'' said Henry Barbour, an
R.N.C. member from Mississippi. ``We were prepared to work with folks in
North Carolina to make it safe, and that is exactly what the R.N.C. is
doing in Jacksonville.''

Luke Broadwater, Carl Hulse, Emily Cochrane and Catie Edmondson
contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Five states are holding primary elections Tuesday, with voters in
    Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, Missouri and Washington State choosing
    nominees for Congress and local offices.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
