Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}J.C. Penney, 118-Year-Old
Department Store, Files for Bankruptcy

\href{https://nyti.ms/3fU4Smw}{https://nyti.ms/3fU4Smw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jc-penney-118-year-old-department-store-files-for-bankruptcy}{%
\section{J.C. Penney, 118-Year-Old Department Store, Files for
Bankruptcy}\label{jc-penney-118-year-old-department-store-files-for-bankruptcy}}

The chain's move came after J. Crew and the Neiman Marcus Group filed,
and represented the biggest casualty amid retail closures tied to the
coronavirus pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/16/business/15virus-jcpenney-print/merlin_172533633_1f85fa46-7b89-4905-9f99-9da82c32c567-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-sapna-maheshwari/author-sapna-maheshwari-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-michael-corkery/author-michael-corkery-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{Michael
Corkery}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

J.C. Penney, with its budget-friendly clothing for families and reliable
home furnishings, was for years a cornerstone of American malls and an
undeniable success story. What started as a humble dry goods store in
Wyoming in 1902 was a century later a national chain with a household
name and more than 1,000 locations.

But on Friday, the company filed for bankruptcy protection after a
prolonged decline over the past 20 years, becoming the latest and
largest retailer to fall during the coronavirus pandemic, which has
devastated the industry. The chain has more than 800 stores and nearly
85,000 employees.

Its collapse follows other retail bankruptcies this month including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/business/j-crew-bankruptcy-coronavirus.html}{J.
Crew}, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/business/neiman-marcus-bankruptcy.html}{Neiman
Marcus Group} and the designer men's clothing brand John Varvatos. But
J.C. Penney represents the biggest casualty by far based on the number
of locations, with stores that are anchors at many of the nation's
malls.

J.C. Penney
\href{https://ir.jcpenney.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/613/jcpenney-to-reduce-debt-and-strengthen-financial-position}{said
it filed for} Chapter 11 protection from its creditors in federal
bankruptcy court for the Southern District of Texas, adding that it had
\$500 million in cash on hand and had received commitments for \$900
million in financing to use during the bankruptcy process. The company
said it had struck a deal with lenders that would reduce several billion
dollars of its debt and it would explore a sale. It also said it planned
to close stores, but specific locations and timing would be disclosed in
coming weeks.

Jill Soltau, J.C. Penney's chief executive, said that the retailer
expected to emerge from ``Chapter 11 and this pandemic as a stronger
retailer.''

The filing was expected after J.C. Penney failed to make an interest
payment on its debt in April to ``maximize financial flexibility,'' and
then skipped another payment last week. The stock of the chain, based in
Plano, Texas, has been trading below \$1 per share for most of this
year.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/15/business/15virus-jcpenney-2/merlin_172537914_f9b6d8a9-f6ce-4361-9f73-314adab39da8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The bankruptcy represents the fall of an American institution
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1971/02/13/archives/j-c-penney-of-store-chain-dies-built-business-on-golden-rule-j-c.html}{that
traces its roots to Kemmerer, Wyo.}, where its founder, James Cash
Penney Jr., invested in a dry-goods store called the Golden Rule. He
soon renamed it J.C. Penney, but was devoted to the notion of the Golden
Rule, particularly in how the company treated its workers, and shared
its profits with staff from its early days.

By the 1990s, the company
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1999/06/26/business/can-jc-penney-evolve-one-minor-problem-darwin-doesn-t-take-rain-checks.html}{was
viewed as a} respectable shopping destination that was more affordable
than Macy's but more upscale than discount outlets.

``It was synonymous with value,'' said Stacey Widlitz, president of SW
Retail Advisors, an independent research firm.

Image

J.C Penney had a reputation as an affordable shopping destination, but
it has been in a downward slide for decades.Credit...Bettmann, via Getty
Images

Most department store chains have been in a long period of decline, and
the massive footprint of J.C. Penney at mid-tier malls has been
especially challenging.

But J.C. Penney's demise was accelerated in the past decade by the
involvement of William A. Ackman, the hedge fund manager, and Ron
Johnson, the former retail chief at Apple, who were behind one of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/04/09/business/ron-johnson-out-as-jc-penney-chief.html}{most
disastrous retail turnaround} attempts in recent history.

Mr. Ackman, an activist investor and chief executive of Pershing Square
Capital Management, bought a major stake in J.C. Penney in 2010 and
subsequently joined its board, seeing an opportunity at the retailer,
which was losing ground to rivals like Kohl's and Macy's.

He
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/11/12/a-dose-of-realism-for-the-chief-of-j-c-penney/}{recruited}
Mr. Johnson, who joined in late 2011 and planned
\href{https://dealbook.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/11/12/a-dose-of-realism-for-the-chief-of-j-c-penney/}{to
transform} J.C. Penney's stores into collections of boutiques with a
``town square," banish nonstop promotions and strike up partnerships
with higher-end designers like Nanette Lepore.

But Mr. Johnson's efforts alienated J.C. Penney's core customers, led to
sales and traffic declines and created internal rifts. He was ousted
after 17 months in April
2013.\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/sapna/how-an-overconfident-billionaire-brought-a-111-year-old-reta}{In
one year,} J.C. Penney had seen \$4.3 billion, or 25 percent, of its
annual sales wiped out.

``It is not easy to get a customer back but it is easy to lose one,''
said Christina Boni, senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service.
``They made some strategic choices that in hindsight were not the best
to make.''

Image

J.C. Penney has cycled through chief executives in recent
years.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

J.C. Penney has cycled through chief executives since then, but the
downward trend has persisted. Even with a 14-year partnership with
Sephora, the cosmetics chain with shops inside hundreds of J.C. Penney
locations, it has found it difficult to appeal to younger customers.

``They're not luxury, they're not as cheap as Walmart and T.J. Maxx,
they don't have the niche stuff at specialty retailers,'' said Barbara
E. Kahn, a marketing professor at the University of Pennsylvania's
Wharton School. ``It's stuck in the middle with no differentiation.''

The company had been making progress in recent months toward slimming
down its inventory and improving its merchandise presentation, Ms. Boni
said. But J.C. Penney was also struggling with a debt load more than
three times that of other large mall-based retailers, giving it less
financial flexibility to invest in online initiatives and other efforts
to win back customers.

Still, the company had managed to avoid bankruptcy longer than another
similar mall-based retailer, Sears, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/14/business/sears-bankruptcy-filing-chapter-11.html}{filed
for Chapter 11 protection} in October 2018.

Image

A closed J.C. Penney store at a mall in Austin, Texas. The chain's~shops
are anchors at many American malls, with nearly 85,000
employees.Credit...Carter Johnston for The New York Times

Since its bankruptcy, Sears has been trying to survive with a smaller
footprint. But in February, the company that now owns Sears and Kmart,
Transformco,
\href{https://transformco.com/docs/110719-store-closing-list.pdf}{closed
an additional 96 stores}, citing ``increased competition and other
factors.''

When J.C. Penney closes stores, it could have major implications for the
mall landscape in the United States, which was already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/05/business/department-stores-macys-sears.html}{struggling}
with a widening chasm between the most popular and least-favored
shopping destinations. It could leave vast and unappealing empty spaces
at many malls. And it could also allow smaller retailers to leave, based
on agreements that are often contingent on the presence of anchors like
J.C. Penney.

``When a J.C. Penney or a Macy's goes out, it's like a snowball
effect,'' Ms. Widlitz said.

Green Street Advisors, a real estate research firm, said in a report
last month that it expected more than half of all mall-based department
stores to close by the end of 2021. It also said it expected J.C. Penney
to eventually liquidate, even if it emerged from bankruptcy in the short
term, saying that ``a smaller store fleet is not going to solve J.C.
Penney's core issues.''

The company's sales have steadily shrunk in recent years to \$10.7
billion for the year that ended Feb. 1, when it posted a net loss of
\$268 million from continuing operations.

``J.C. Penney was already experiencing market share declines before
Covid-19,'' Ms. Boni said. ``It would be difficult to turn around a
business in this environment.''

Contact Sapna Maheshwari at
\href{mailto:sapna@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{sapna@NYTimes.com}} and
Michael Corkery at
\href{mailto:michael.corkery@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{michael.corkery@NYTimes.com}}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
