Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Trading Sportsbooks for
Brokerages, Bored Bettors Wager on Stocks

\url{https://nyti.ms/37ENzSV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268bde0-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268bde1-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268e4f0-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268e4f1-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268e4f2-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=d268e4f3-f52b-11ea-8e9a-cf021cc1e5be\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trading-sportsbooks-for-brokerages-bored-bettors-wager-on-stocks}{%
\section{Trading Sportsbooks for Brokerages, Bored Bettors Wager on
Stocks}\label{trading-sportsbooks-for-brokerages-bored-bettors-wager-on-stocks}}

When Russian table tennis or Korean baseball won't scratch the itch,
some are trying their hand at trading equities. It's enough to move the
market, analysts say.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/14/business/14virus-gamblers1a/merlin_173508768_89ce7882-2526-45e5-84cc-5b77b99eeb45-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-phillips}{Matt
Phillips}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 14, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When he wasn't coaching sports, he was playing them or watching them.
And if he was watching --- well, a little skin in the game always made
it more interesting for Steven Young, a teacher outside Philadelphia.
Just small-dollar bets, mixed in with shuffling the rosters of his
fantasy teams.

But when the coronavirus pandemic hit, all the games he cared about
sputtered to a stop. So he turned to one of the last places in town for
reliable action: the stock market.

Mr. Young withdrew all the money from his sportsbook accounts and
deposited it into Robinhood, the free stock-trading platform. When his
federal stimulus check arrived, he put money from that in, too.

Forced into online lessons when his school district shut its doors, the
health and physical education teacher had everything he needed to get
into the market. ``Having the time and the flexibility and the
opportunity --- it being as low as it was --- I just kind of felt it was
a good time,'' he said.

Mr. Young, 30, has only about \$2,500 invested, making him a guppy among
whales. But some Wall Street analysts see people who used to bet on
sports as playing a big role in the market's recent surge, which has
largely
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/business/recession-stock-market-coronavirus.html}{erased
its losses} for the year.

``There's zero doubt in my mind that it is a factor,'' said Julian
Emanuel, chief equity and derivatives strategist at the brokerage firm
BTIG. ``Zero doubt.''

Millions of small-time investors have opened trading accounts in recent
months, a flood of new buyers unlike anything the market had seen in
years, just as lockdown orders halted entire sectors of the economy and
sent unemployment soaring.

It's not clear how many of the new arrivals are sports bettors, but some
are behaving like aggressive gamblers. There has been a jump in small
bets in the stock options market, where wagers on the direction of share
prices can produce thrilling scores and gut-wrenching losses. And
transactions that make little economic sense, like buying up the nearly
valueless shares of bankrupt companies, are off the charts.

Image

Mr. Young, a teacher outside Philadelphia, wearing socks with the Eagles
logo.Credit...Michelle Gustafson for The New York Times

Image

The Eagles fan emptied his sportsbook accounts and deposited the money
into Robinhood.Credit...Michelle Gustafson for The New York Times

Even with modest investments, these newcomers can move stock prices,
which are typically set by just a sliver of shareholders. On most days,
the overwhelming majority of stock investors do nothing, while the
buyers and sellers establish the prices. So even a small influx of
hyperactive speculators can have a significant effect.

``Investors are increasingly asking us about the participation of
individual investors in the shares and options market,'' analysts from
Goldman Sachs wrote in a note published late last month. ``Our data
suggests that individual investors are indeed a significant proportion
of daily volume.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{23h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{25h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{25h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research, a financial market research
firm, said gamblers were a small but important segment of those new
arrivals, along with video game aficionados.

``Is it as big as what would we refer to as the institutional
community?'' Mr. Bianco asked, referring to mutual funds,
exchange-traded funds and professional investors. ``Probably not.''

But, he added, ``it is big enough to matter.''

Stymied sports bettors are sitting on a substantial amount of money.
Gamblers legally wagered more than \$13 billion on sports last year,
according to Eilers \& Krejcik Gaming, a research and consulting firm,
and estimates suggest illegal wagering is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/14/us/politics/supreme-court-sports-betting-new-jersey.html}{10
times that figure.} But betting has collapsed since the outbreak shut
down the major sports leagues. Sports betting revenues in March dropped
some 60 percent from February, the firm said. They may have fallen as
much as 80 percent more in April.

``Basically, I needed something to try to gamble on or to try to make
some money on,'' said Sean Moore, a 23-year-old aircraft electrician
living in Suisun City, Calif. With an initial investment of about
\$1,000, he has experienced all the highs and lows of playing the market
in just a few weeks.

Mr. Moore's bets on airlines and casino companies surged roughly 60
percent in about a week. ``I was telling everybody: `You got to do
stocks. Sign up --- it's easy money right now,'' he said.

But then a bet he made on the casino company MGM --- premised on the
reopening of Las Vegas after coronavirus restrictions were lifted ---
went south.

``It did not go positive like I thought it would,'' he said. ``I thought
that was going to be huge with them reopening.''

Mr. Moore got into stock trading after watching Dave Portnoy, the
president of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/style/call-her-daddy-podcast.html}{raunchy},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/23/sports/espn-barstool-van-talk.html}{irreverently
juvenile} --- and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/14/magazine/spurned-by-espn-barstool-sports-is-staying-on-offense.html}{wildly
popular} --- sports and gambling website Barstool Sports.

When the coronavirus shuttered Barstool's Manhattan offices, Mr. Portnoy
--- who had almost no stock trading experience --- reinvented himself as
``Davey Day Trader.'' With an initial outlay of \$3 million, he started
buying and selling from his apartment and streaming the results to his
loyal readers.

``I have a pretty good feel for when something is entertaining content
for them,'' said Mr. Portnoy, whose streaming sessions mix confident
pronouncements with colorful profanity.

It didn't start out so well: Mr. Portnoy lost more than \$1.5 million on
repeated bets that the market would fall. He put in more than \$2
million more and turned into a raging stock market bull, clawing his way
back to positive territory.

The short-term swings make betting on stocks no different from betting
on a game: ``Same rush,'' he said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/14/business/14virus-gamblers/merlin_170244690_1154ce99-2da8-4926-8db7-097d4b12652b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

While Mr. Portnoy has been a considerable influence on Mr. Moore, Seth
Serrano was tipped off by someone close to him: his brother. Stocks have
replaced sports as their main topic of conversation. They keep one eye
on market movements, and fire text messages back and forth.

``It's funny --- we talk about it like we talk about the betting,'' said
Mr. Serrano, 39, who lives in Edison, N.J.

A modest bettor --- only a dollar or two on a game --- he keeps a
portfolio worth only about \$200. He freely admits he started out with
little idea of what he was doing, but he naturally gravitated to a
classic stock-market strategy: Purchase stocks that have fallen and hope
to sell them on the rebound --- ``buying the dip'' in trader parlance.

``I don't know what half this stuff is,'' Mr. Serrano said as he
scrolled through his portfolio, reviewing holdings that included Ford
Motor, some pharmaceutical shares and a somewhat obscure E.T.F. that
tracks the price of the fertilizer potash.

He also has a stake in a business he knows well: DraftKings, the
gambling service he formerly used. The company went public in April, and
Mr. Serrano figured its shares would spike once games restarted. He
didn't have to wait that long: DraftKings is up some 245 percent this
year, even without games to wager on.

``Basically I'm, like, gambling on my gambling,'' Mr. Serrano said.

The last time Americans showed any serious appetite for stock-market
speculation was the tech-stock frenzy of the late 1990s. Since then,
investors have embraced safer options, like set-it-and-forget-it index
funds based on the premise that trying to beat the market is a waste of
time.

That started to change in earnest last year when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/01/your-money/charles-schwab-free-trades.html}{a
brokerage price war kicked into high gear}. Robinhood, fueled by
hundreds of millions of dollars in venture capital, had long been
offering commission-free online trades. Its established competitors were
forced to lower their prices until finally, in October, the giant
brokerages --- Charles Schwab, TD Ameritrade, E-Trade, Fidelity and
Vanguard --- started eliminating fees, too.

When share prices plummeted in the pandemic, would-be investors rushed
in.

TD Ameritrade reported a record 608,000 new funded accounts during the
first quarter, more than triple last year's pace. Schwab set a record,
too, with 609,000 --- including 280,000 in March alone. E-Trade had
363,000 new accounts, more than double the same period last year and
another record. And in early May, Robinhood said it had added more than
three million accounts
\href{https://blog.robinhood.com/news/2020/5/4/robinhood-raises-280-million-in-series-f-funding-led-by-sequoia}{this
year}.

There has been a surge in small investors using option trades to make
pure win-or-lose bets on where stock prices will be at a specific time,
said Matt Maley, chief market strategist at Miller Tabak, an asset
management firm.

``That's another sign that it's these gamblers,'' he said.

Jonny Tran, a lawyer in Fort Collins, Colo., has embraced options and
scored some wins, including a \$400 put option --- a bet that a share
price will fall --- that ballooned into \$7,000 after shares of the
chip-maker Broadcom plunged.

``It was just a hunch,'' said Mr. Tran, 31, who had tried to scratch his
gambling itch with games overseas, putting money on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/sports/coronavirus-korea-baseball-opening.html}{South
Korean baseball} and
\href{https://dknation.draftkings.com/2020/3/25/21193214/professional-table-tennis-odds-how-to-watch-how-to-bet-ukraine-tt-cup-russia-setka-cup-ittf}{Russian
table tennis}.

During
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/11/business/market-drop-coronavirus.html}{Thursday's
brutal sell-off}, which sent the S\&P 500 down 5.9 percent, Mr. Tran
made out just fine, thanks to put options on Snapchat and the overall
index.

``I made like 600 bucks yesterday, which is kind of cool,'' he said
Friday. But the sharp pullback got his attention, and he thinks he might
cool it with the bets for a while.

As of Friday he was out of the market. ``I'm going to sit this out for a
little bit,'' Mr. Tran said.

The bettors stress that they play the market as entertainment. Many have
401(k) plans filled with the plain-vanilla index funds that are the
bedrock of retirement planning, and they put down only what they're
willing to lose.

``They're not expecting to retire off of trading stocks,'' said Josh
Brown, chief executive of Ritholtz Wealth Management, who has been
following the growth of retail activity this year. ``They're having fun
and they're learning the market, and I think it's great.''

Mr. Young started out buying index funds, but he has grown more
adventurous as he has picked up more knowledge. He's subscribing to
investing channels on YouTube, and finds himself reading financial news
in Barron's and The Wall Street Journal.

``It'll be interesting,'' he said, ``when sports come back, how invested
I am in sports.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
