Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}What Are Fintechs and
How Can They Help Small Business?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MHN0xX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-are-fintechs-and-how-can-they-help-small-business}{%
\section{What Are Fintechs and How Can They Help Small
Business?}\label{what-are-fintechs-and-how-can-they-help-small-business}}

Online financial service companies are filling a gap, especially as
companies have altered how they work.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/04/business/14sp-ff-fintech/14sp-smallbiz-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/paul-sullivan}{Paul
Sullivan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This article is part of our continuing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/fast-forward}{\emph{Fast
Forward series}}\emph{, which examines technological, economic, social
and cultural shifts that happen as businesses evolve.}

Dominick Pietrzak, who owns a film-production company in Brooklyn, was
among the small business owners to receive a coveted and potentially
forgivable loan in the first round of the Paycheck Protection Program.
How he did it was, in retrospect, the result of a convergence of very
unlikely events.

As a business with just one full-time employee --- himself --- he first
applied for the New York City Employee Retention Grant Program while he
was watching Mayor Bill de Blasio talk about the program on television.
Three days after seeing the announcement on TV and applying, a few
thousand dollars was in his bank account.

For the Small Business Administration's P.P.P. loan, the most coveted of
the early relief efforts, he first tried to apply through his bank,
Capital One, but they were not taking applications. That bank, in fact,
did not get its system running until the program's first round was out
of money.

But that turned out to be a stroke of luck for Mr. Pietrzak. Searching
for a way to keep his small business afloat, he took a chance and
answered an offer from his bookkeeping company, Bench, an eight-year-old
financial technology start-up.

Bench, he said, connected him to Fundera, a seven-year-old lending
platform for small companies. On a Sunday he signed closing documents
from Cross River Bank in New Jersey --- which he had never heard of ---
and two days later found the P.P.P. money in his bank account.

``I was a little skeptical with Fundera and Cross River Bank, but I just
kept trying and redoing the application and eventually it went
through,'' Mr. Pietrzak said. ``There were some hiccups with the site,
but after I did the application a few times, it went through.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{31h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{34h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{40h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

In the end, hiccups included, he received the kind of service and
financial support in the early days of the program --- from two little
known fintech entities and a little-known bank founded in 2008 --- that
many small business owners with well-established traditional banking
relationships did not get.

``Prior to this crisis you had fintechs specializing in the
under-\$50,000 loans,'' said John Pitts, the head of policy for Plaid, a
fintech company that serves as a link between fintech apps and **** some
11,000 financial institutions, and a former deputy assistant director of
intergovernmental affairs at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
``It's not surprising you don't see this cohort well served'' by the big
banks.

One thing the pandemic has revealed is that fintechs, largely online
financial service companies once reserved for younger people with lower
earnings and savings, have proven to be savvy and effective
intermediaries in the age of the coronavirus.

When it came to offering the crucial financial support small business
owners were seeking in the pandemic, some of these fintechs held their
own or bested more established financial service firms that struggled to
roll out promised programs. Through their technology, these companies
can meet their clients' financial needs online --- the 21st century
equivalent of the relationships brick and mortar banks once promoted.

``We sit on top of a network of 100 banks,'' said Everett Cook, chief
executive and co-founder of Rho Business Banking. ``It gave us a fair
perspective of what was going well and what was going poorly.''

Mr. Cook said Rho looked to give customers access to loans at any
institution that had money available, providing more flexibility than
business owners who went to a single bank found. ``We saw lots of
customers come to us because they were in the queue of a top-five
bank,'' he said. ``The large banks prioritized the businesses they knew.
That created a flood of applications for everyone who didn't fall into
that box.''

Many fintechs found that the demand for their services, which had been
steady before the crisis, grew almost exponentially as companies shifted
employees to working from home. Rippling, a San Francisco-based fintech
that provides support for payroll and benefits and manages computers and
access to company databases and software, began attracting customers who
had been resistant to change their processes but who now had fewer
options.

``Any exogenous shock to the system favors companies that can move
quickly and take advantage of those things,'' said Parker Conrad,
Rippling's co-founder and chief executive. ``All the reticence about
doing things online evaporated in an instant. That's a dynamic that
impacts not just fintechs but technology companies more broadly who are
trying to automate business processes that are offline.''

In May, Mr. Conrad said new sales were up 65 percent so far this year.

New technology companies were also able to take data they could
aggregate quickly --- in this case information needed for the loan
applications --- and deliver it electronically and quickly to local
credit unions. The credit unions, in turn, could help their customers.

Cortney Keene, co-founder of Keene Perspectives, an educational company
in White River Junction, Vt., that works with autistic children, needed
a loan to help support her 20 employees. Her business shut down when the
stay-at-home orders were issued, and she laid off 17 workers.

She used Gusto, a fintech payroll company, to organize the data for her
loan applications as soon as early guidance on the payroll loans came
out. She then got funding through a local credit union in Vermont.
``We'd be seriously cutting services without the P.P.P. loan,'' she
said.

Edward Kim, co-founder and chief technology officer of Gusto, which is
eight years old, described what his company did in the early days of the
crisis as ``getting all the gnarly parts into one document to get this
loan approved as quickly as possible so someone at a bank isn't
scrutinizing it.''

While more established payroll companies aimed to do the same thing,
Gusto's low-cost online model meant it had more small businesses as
clients --- with average monthly payrolls from \$20,000 to \$28,000.
Given the early confusion around how the Small Business Administration
would work with financial institutions, Gusto focused on streamlining
**** the process of collecting the needed information so banks could
disburse the money.

What all these companies are counting on is that businesses, forced to
do things differently in the crisis, will continue to use fintechs for
more of their needs.

``Things were already moving in this direction,'' Mr. Conrad said.
``What would have been holding people back was the inertia. Once people
move, the inertia works in the other direction. Who wants to go back to
filling out insurance paperwork with a pen and trying to find a fax
machine? No one.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
