Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Postal Crisis Has States
Looking for Alternatives to Mail-In Ballots

\url{https://nyti.ms/3kN9vBc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{postal-crisis-has-states-looking-for-alternatives-to-mail-in-ballots}{%
\section{Postal Crisis Has States Looking for Alternatives to Mail-In
Ballots}\label{postal-crisis-has-states-looking-for-alternatives-to-mail-in-ballots}}

A crisis of confidence in the Postal Service is pushing Democratic Party
and state officials to look for a Plan B: ballot drop-boxes, curbside
voting, and even expanded in-person polling sites.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/us/politics/17voting1/merlin_173134692_72b0b770-526e-4237-a035-ab738b4abfdd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-trip-gabriel/author-trip-gabriel-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/trip-gabriel}{Trip Gabriel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 17, 2020Updated Aug. 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Postal slowdowns and warnings of delayed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html}{mail-in
ballots} are causing election officials to rethink vote-by-mail
strategies, with some states seeking to bypass the post office with
ballot drop boxes, drive-through drop-offs or expanded in-person voting
options, despite the coronavirus pandemic.

The 2020 election was supposed to be the largest-ever experiment in
voting by mail, but the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Trump
administration's} late cost-cutting push at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Postal
Service} has shaken the confidence of voters and Democratic officials
alike. The images of sorting machines being removed from postal
facilities, mailboxes uprooted or bolted shut on city streets, and
packages piling up at mail facilities have sparked anger and deep worry.

Even if, as the Postal Service says, it has plenty of capacity to
process
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/vote-by-mail-new-york.html}{mail-in
ballots}, the fear is that the psychological damage is already done. So
as Democrats in Washington
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/us/politics/coronavirus-postal-service-stimulus-bill.html}{fight
to restore Postal Service funding}, election officials around the
country are looking for a Plan B.

``The office has been flooded with calls for the past few days,'' said
Katie Hobbs, the secretary of state of Arizona and a Democrat. ``The
concern I have is that, like any campaign of misinformation, it attempts
to undermine voters' confidence in our process.''

Planning in the states proceeded Monday, as House Democrats prepared for
a Saturday vote on legislation that would reverse cost-cutting measures
at the Postal Service and pump \$25 billion in emergency funding into
the ailing agency. Democrats were also pressuring the Postal Service
board to reverse those policies.

Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, along with Robert Duncan, the chairman
of the agency's board of governors, agreed to testify before the House
Oversight and Reform Committee next week, as questions arose about a
potential conflict of interest from a logistics company Mr. DeJoy holds
a stake in that could be shaping the decisions of the Postal Service's
Trump-appointed leadership.

It was still unclear whether Senate Republicans would follow the
Democrats' lead and do anything that the president opposes. But
endangered Republicans running for re-election were clearly feeling the
heat, not from Democrats in Washington but from angry constituents
awaiting delivery of medicines, supplies and other packages that they
have come to rely on the post office to deliver.

The newest front in the battle over voting in 2020 is the drop box,
where ballots mailed out to voters can be returned without fear of
Postal Service backlogs or coronavirus infection. Once voters deposit
their ballots in such boxes, they are collected by election officials
and brought to polling places for tabulation.

Election officials in Connecticut, Virginia, Pennsylvania and elsewhere
are seeking to expand drop-off locations for absentee and mail-in
ballots, but they have met vehement opposition from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} and his campaign.

After spending weeks floating unsupported allegations that voting by
mail would ``rig'' the election,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1295385113862090753}{the
president on Monday turned to drop boxes}: ``Some states use `drop
boxes' for the collection of Universal Mail-In Ballots. So who is going
to `collect' the Ballots, and what might be done to them prior to
tabulation?'' he
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1295385113862090753}{asked
on Twitter}. ``A Rigged Election? So bad for our Country.''

Speaking to reporters at the White House on Monday, Mr. Trump said he
wanted to ``make sure that the election is not stolen, and so does
everybody else.''

Drop-box expansion has so far fallen along party lines. In New Jersey,
which has a Democratic governor and state legislature,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/nyregion/nj-vote-by-mail-election.html}{state
officials announced on Friday} that at least 105 more drop boxes would
be added across the state for the general election. In Ohio, the
Republican secretary of state has said he is unable to allow for more
than one drop-off location per county.

But even in Louisiana, where the Republican secretary of state on Monday
sought to limit vote-by-mail options, he proposed curbside drop-off
options for absentee ballots.

Beyond the drop boxes, the upheaval over the postal system is forcing
many campaigns and state parties to begin their get-out-the-vote
operations months earlier than expected. Susan Swecker, the chairwoman
of the Democratic Party of Virginia, said the state party's two-week
get-out-the-vote program was ``now a two-and-a-half-month''
get-out-the-vote program.

She said the party was now encouraging municipalities to open more
in-person satellite locations for the state's 45-day early voting
window, and to have far more drop boxes, which would require ``an urgent
push.''

``I don't think there are enough drop boxes,'' Ms. Swecker said.
``That's kind of a new thing for us around here.''

The Trump campaign has moved to counter. In Pennsylvania, where mail
ballot drop boxes were widely used for the first time in the June
primary, the Trump campaign is suing to block them in November. The
suit, filed in June, claims that drop boxes ``exponentially enhanced''
the threat of fraud and don't allow for poll watchers to monitor them.

Pennsylvanians became eligible this year to request ``no-excuse''
absentee ballots under a law passed by the Republican-led legislature
and signed by the Democratic governor. Such ballots can be requested
regardless of whether a voter is out of town, sick, or otherwise unable
to go to a polling place. The pandemic drove an enormous surge in mail
voting; when election officials were overwhelmed, about 20 county
election boards introduced the drop boxes to ease the burden.

But the Trump campaign and Republican supporters in the state have
echoed the president's baseless attacks on mail ballots. Use of the drop
boxes, the lawsuit claims, ``provides fraudsters an easy opportunity to
engage in ballot harvesting, manipulate or destroy ballots, manufacture
duplicitous votes, and sow chaos.''

Last week, a federal judge ordered the Trump campaign to produce any
evidence it has of voting fraud occurring through the use of drop boxes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/us/politics/17voting2/merlin_170653497_45bba1c0-8423-44d2-995b-414e671f1906-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Undeterred, the Trump campaign and the Republican National Committee
announced Monday night that they would intervene in two other lawsuits,
brought by the Ohio Democratic Party and the League of Women Voters,
against Ohio's Republican secretary of state to loosen rules on absentee
ballot applications.

In Louisiana, the secretary of state moved to roll back vote-by-mail
rules for the state's primary. The state, which does not have no-excuse
absentee ballots, had expanded who was able to vote absentee in the
primary. But on Monday, the secretary of state proposed restricting the
criteria for additional permissible vote-by-mail excuses to only those
who have tested positive for the virus.

The plan would still have to pass the Republican legislature and be
signed by a Democratic governor.

In Ohio, Frank LaRose, the Republican secretary of state, said he did
not have the legal authority to unilaterally expand drop-box locations.
He has since decreed that there can be no more than one drop-off
location per county.

In an interview, he said that he supported drop boxes as an alternative
to the mail service, but that he did not have the authority under
current state law to install them.

``I would love for the General Assembly to authorize the addition of
more drop boxes,'' he said. ``But for me to just unilaterally say, `Go
ahead, boards of elections, install as many of these as you want' would
be irresponsible, because what I'm doing now is setting up dozens of my
boards of elections for all kinds of litigation and creating the
potential for more voter confusion, which is the last thing we need
right now.''

Instead, he said, the state will begin a public relations campaign to
get voters to mail in their ballots early. Ohio has also urged the
Postal Service to move some of its processing into the state from a
Detroit processing plant to cut down on delays. And it has designed its
ballot envelopes with a bold-colored stripe to make sure they are
visible during the sorting process.

David Pepper, the chairman of the Ohio Democrats, however, said Mr.
LaRose had ``spent the last month doing everything he could to stop drop
boxes, delaying it for almost a month, and then unilaterally only saying
one per county without a legal opinion.''

Mr. Pepper said the state Democratic Party would encourage voters,
particularly if they are looking to return their ballots close to
November, to use the lone drop-off site in their county.

``We will make it painfully clear where that drop box is to every
voter,'' Mr. Pepper said. ``I want to have a 30-day parade of cars going
to that one location.''

Some Democrats said on Monday they remained confident in the Postal
Service to successfully process a large vote-by-mail election.

``The U.S.P.S. is set up to deal with surges all the time,'' said Luke
Warford, the director of voter expansion at the Texas Democratic Party,
which is sticking to its vote-by-mail push. ``There's surges before
elections. There's particular surges before Christmas.''

Mr. Warford said the state party had just mailed 818,000 absentee ballot
applications to eligible seniors in Texas (another state that does not
offer no-excuse absentee ballots). But the ballot chase program ---
calling, texting and following up with those older voters to return
their ballot --- will begin earlier than normal this year.

In Arizona, where nearly 90 percent of the ballots in this year's
primary came through the mail or drop-off locations, the secretary of
state's office has revised its guidance for ballot deadlines,
encouraging voters to mail ballots no later than Oct. 27 to ensure they
arrive on time. Ms. Hobbs, the secretary of state, is also looking at
other methods of returning ballots.

``We are also working with counties to increase the number of secure
drop-boxes across our state, and reminding voters that they can always
skip ahead at any voting location to drop off a ballot-by-mail, and some
counties are providing drive-through ballot drop-off at voting
locations,'' Ms. Hobbs said.

Other states that are almost entirely vote by mail have had to
drastically increase their voter education program. In Washington, the
secretary of state's office will be using social media and radio ads for
the month leading up to the election to help inform concerned voters.

``Some voters have been upset, and we're just trying to counter the
messaging they're hearing with the facts,'' said Kim Wyman, the
Republican secretary of state. ``That was actually part of our plan when
we started ramping up for 2020. We figured it would be foreign
interference that would be ramping up disinformation; shows you what we
knew.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
