Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump as Candidate: Racist
Attacks, Conspiracy Theories, War on the Post Office

\url{https://nyti.ms/3iMfhkF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{trump-as-candidate-racist-attacks-conspiracy-theories-war-on-the-post-office}{%
\section{Trump as Candidate: Racist Attacks, Conspiracy Theories, War on
the Post
Office}\label{trump-as-candidate-racist-attacks-conspiracy-theories-war-on-the-post-office}}

President Trump long ago redefined what constitutes normal in the White
House, but with 77 days left in the campaign he is pushing all the
boundaries at once.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/us/politics/17dc-trump/17dc-trump-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

How many ways are there to say that this is not normal?

That it is not normal for a president to employ transparently racist and
sexist attacks. Or pressure his attorney general to prosecute his foes
with an election looming. Or resist money for the Postal Service in
order to stop people from voting by mail. Or embrace a conspiracy
theorist running for Congress. Or condemn American cities to ``rot.''

President Trump, of course, long ago redefined what constitutes normal
in the White House, but with 77 days left in a campaign that polls show
he is losing, he is pushing all the boundaries at once. At the same time
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/17/us/politics/donald-trump-obama-birther.html}{champion
of birtherism} is again scraping the raw edges of America's divisions
over race, gender and national origin, he is propelling fringe ideas
into mainstream conversation. And now, running as the incumbent, he has
levers of power available to help salvage a flagging campaign.

Yet what once would have caused jaws to drop barely seems to register
for long at this point because it is so quickly overshadowed by the next
norm-busting statement or action. Five years after he originally kicked
off his quest for the presidency, Mr. Trump has said and done so many
things once considered out of bounds that his critics no longer even
know whether to raise alarms or ignore another palpable bid for
attention.

When the president recently promoted a ``very impressive'' doctor who
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/stella-immanuel-trumps-new-covid-doctor-believes-in-alien-dna-demon-sperm-and-hydroxychloroquine}{blames
various ailments on demon sperm} and says treatments are being developed
from alien DNA, it was barely a one-day story. When he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/elections/trump-refrains-from-disavowing-qanon-conspiracy.html}{endorsed
a QAnon adherent running for Congress} who warns that the world is
controlled by a
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=11\&v=2rtYok4fdbQ\&feature=emb_title}{global
cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles},'' it did not last that long.

Even on Saturday shortly before midnight, Mr. Trump took no rest from
stirring the pot. At 11:09 p.m., just 15 minutes after posting on
Twitter a statement mourning
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/politics/robert-s-trump-dead.html}{the
death of his younger brother}, he retweeted a message urging the
abandonment of cities that he, as president, represents. ``Leave
Democrat cities,'' the message read. ``Let them rot.''

As he began barnstorming battleground states on Monday to try to steal a
little attention from the Democratic National Convention, Mr. Trump
repeated his use of incendiary terms in attacking Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/technology/kamala-harris-disinformation.html}{Kamala
Harris}, the designated vice-presidential candidate. ``She was nastier
and meaner and more vicious than Pocahontas,'' he said in Minnesota,
throwing in as a twofer the racist slur he has used for Senator
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts so often that no one really stops to
protest anymore.

``Outrage fatigue is real. He has worn us out,'' said former Senator
Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri. ``But with each outrage, while
we quickly move onto the next, he is failing to gain the confidence of
any new supporters. I've never seen a candidate so incapable of reaching
out to anyone other than his calcified base.''

Mr. Trump gets away with what no other president could because he
overwhelms the system, said Sarah Longwell, a conservative consultant
and founder of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/28/us/politics/republican-voters-against-trump.html}{Republican
Voters Against Trump} who has conducted focus groups exploring attitudes
toward the president.

``It's not that we simply shrug and move on in the face of a scandal.
It's that there's immediately a new scandal to focus on,'' she said.
``One scandal is something you can sink your teeth into and focus on.
Hundreds become white noise.''

One person's scandal is another's moment of authenticity or admirable
demonstration of political incorrectness or battle against the elitist
``swamp'' of Washington. The president's base has remained remarkably
constant over four years,
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/203207/trump-job-approval-weekly.aspx}{hovering
around 40 percent in most polls}, largely unaffected by whatever
outrages have consumed cable television on any given day --- or
energized by them in a way.

For many of Mr. Trump's admirers, it is the very fact that the
establishment finds him so outrageous that binds them to him, a sign
that he must be doing something right if the chattering class is so
offended. Others see it as entertainment, never taking it too seriously,
like his old reality television show. Or his supporters put aside any
concerns because they appreciate his policies on taxes, trade,
regulation, judicial appointments, military spending or overseas wars.

``To an only modestly tuned-in public, the constant outrage, however
justified, looks hysterical,'' Ms. Longwell said. ``There's a lot of
eye-rolling in the focus groups over the media constantly `freaking out'
about something Trump has done. They get worn out by `the negativity.'''

The last week has been filled with freakout-inducing moments. After
former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/us/politics/kamala-harris-vp-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr. chose} Ms. Harris as his Democratic running mate, Mr. Trump
said he had heard
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-kamala-harris.html}{that
she doesn't meet the requirements}'' for the vice presidency because her
parents were immigrants, even though she was born in California. Mr.
Trump's assertion has no basis in law but played to nativist sentiments
and recalled his years of false suggestions that President Barack Obama
was secretly born in Africa.

Mr. Trump likewise resorted to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/arts/trump-black-women-stereotypes.html}{some
of his favorite terms for women} he does not like, characterizing Ms.
Harris as ``nasty,'' ``angry'' and a ``mad woman.'' Eric Trump, one of
the president's sons, ``liked'' a since-deleted tweet that referred to
Ms. Harris as a ``whorendous pick.''

On the same day, the president played to old white fears by claiming on
Twitter that
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1293517514798960640}{the
`suburban housewife' will be voting for me},'' using a word more common
in the 1970s than the 21st century, because if Mr. Biden wins he will
force low-income housing into their communities ``with Corey Booker in
charge,'' naming another Black senator (while misspelling his first
name).

Mr. Trump backed off the eligibility argument against Ms. Harris at a
Saturday evening news conference, saying that ``it's not something that
I'm going to be pursuing.'' But even then, he refused invitations to
state flatly that Ms. Harris can run, suggesting it was still an open
question by saying, ``You would have thought that she would have been
vetted by Sleepy Joe.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 ›}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the
board.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:19 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#the-nras-new-candidate-grades-show-a-continuing-decline}{The
N.R.A.'s new candidate grades show a continuing
decline.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:15 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#biden-announces-a-plan-to-push-companies-to-keep-jobs-in-the-us}{Biden
announces a plan to push companies to keep jobs in the U.S.}

The president's defenders denied that his comments were racist. Paris
Dennard, the senior communications adviser for Black media affairs at
the Republican National Committee, said there were ``Black suburban
housewives'' just as there were white ones.

``This is an economic and real estate issue and not a racial one,'' he
said. ``President Trump's record for achievement for the Black
community, in just four years, speaks volumes compared to Joe Biden's
long record of bigotry, racist statements and policies like his crime
bill, that have destroyed the Black families, communities and
generational wealth.''

Unlike in 2016, when Mr. Trump's comments on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/17/us/politics/donald-trump-runs-for-president-this-time-for-real-he-says.html?hp}{Mexicans},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/politics/first-draft/2015/12/07/donald-trump-calls-for-banning-muslims-from-entering-u-s/}{Muslims},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/08/us/politics/donald-trump-women.html}{women},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/07/19/us/politics/trump-belittles-mccains-war-record.html}{veterans}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/11/27/us/politics/donald-trump-says-his-mocking-of-new-york-times-reporter-was-misread.html}{people
with disabilities} generated shock, his remarks now carry extra weight
because he has the power of the federal government at his disposal.

\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-barr-durham-probe-gauntlet}{On
Fox Business last week}, Mr. Trump seemed to pressure Attorney General
William P. Barr to prosecute his political enemies. ``Bill Barr can go
down as the greatest attorney general in the history of our country or
he can go down as just an average guy,'' the president said while
accusing Mr. Obama's administration of spying on him. ``It depends on
what's going to happen.''

Mr. Barr has ruled out charges against Mr. Obama or Mr. Biden but last
week said he would not hold off action against others before Nov. 3.
``We're not going to do anything for the purposes of affecting an
election,'' he
\href{https://www.bucksexton.com/content/2020-08-12-barr-says-its-the-first-time-in-his-career-dems-dont-condemn-violence/}{told
the conservative talk show host Buck Sexton}. ``But, you know, we are
trying to get some things accomplished before the election.''

Mr. Barr has already repeatedly taken actions advocated by Mr. Trump
benefiting the president's associates, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/us/politics/roger-stone-sentencing.html}{reducing
a sentence recommendation} against Roger J. Stone Jr. and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/us/politics/michael-flynn-case-dropped.html}{moving
to drop a case} against Michael T. Flynn even after he pleaded guilty.
The president excitedly declared last week that an F.B.I. lawyer would
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/us/politics/kevin-clinesmith-durham-investigation.html}{plead
guilty to misconduct} tied to a surveillance warrant against a campaign
adviser.

One Trump comment that did generate enduring reaction came when he
seemed to acknowledge that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-postal-service-mail-voting.html}{he
wanted to block money} sought by Democrats for the Postal Service so as
to stop mail-in voting, a form of balloting that he has previously said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/us/politics/vote-by-mail.html}{would
doom Republican candidates}. ``They need that money in order to have the
post office work so it can take all of these millions and millions of
ballots,'' he said. ``If they don't get those two items, that means you
can't have universal mail-in voting because they're not equipped to have
it.''

By Saturday, he was recasting his position, telling reporters that
``you're right, there has to be more resources, I agree,'' but blaming
the opposition for not compromising on a broader coronavirus relief
bill. ``The problem is the Democrats are not approving the funds
necessary,'' he said.

And then there were comments that in an earlier era might have prompted
a wave of indignation among Republicans --- including Mr. Trump. Out of
the blue, he
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/08/13/trump-a-lot-of-people-think-edward-snowden-not-being-treated-fairly/}{told
The New York Post} that ``a lot of people'' think that Edward Snowden,
the former national security contractor who fled to Russia after leaking
information on secret government surveillance programs, ``is not being
treated fairly'' and then on Saturday said he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/politics/trump-snowden-esper.html}{considering
a pardon}.

Such a notion once would have upset Mr. Trump. In 2013, as a private
citizen, he repeatedly assailed Mr. Snowden, calling him
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/395683702757662721}{a
spy who should be executed}'' and declaring that ``if I were President,
Snowden would have
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/346998236776640513}{already
been returned to the U.S.} (by their fastest jet) and with an apology!''
(Needless to say, Russia has never returned Mr. Snowden, much less
apologized, even though Mr. Trump is president.)

``Trump likes to distract people,'' said former Gov. James J. Blanchard
of Michigan, a Biden delegate advising the campaign in his battleground
state. ``He thinks he can do that by dominating the news. And he
distracts from the real issues, which are managing the coronavirus and
dealing with divisiveness among our people.''

But with his party leading in the polls, Mr. Blanchard said it would be
a mistake to rise to the bait. ``I don't want Democrats to overreact to
every little thing,'' he said. ``We have to keep our eye on the prize.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
