<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" data-role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[48 Hours in the Strange and Beautiful World of TikTok]()[Skip to
Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@NYTimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

# 48 Hours in the Strange and Beautiful World of TikTok

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

<div class="interactive-byline css-103zbxs">

Oct. 10,
2019

</div>

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">18</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

The video app offers an endless scroll of creativity and goofing off,
told in 15-second snippets. What did five critics see when they went
down the rabbit hole? Art, artistry and a lot of
dancing.

<div id="48-hours-tik-tok" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium" data-id="100000006762474">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="g-story g-freebird g-max-limit" data-preview-slug="2019-03-10-vi-freebird">

<div class="bg-colors">

<div class="blue">

</div>

<div class="red">

</div>

<div class="black">

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-section0" class="g-container g-section0">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div class="spacer">

</div>

<div class="title">

# 48 Hours in the Strange and Beautiful World of TikTok

</div>

<div class="kicker">

#### The video app offers an endless scroll of creativity and goofing off, told in 15-second snippets. What did five critics see when they went down the rabbit hole? Art, artistry and a lot of dancing.

</div>

<div class="authors">

## By James Poniewozik,

## Amanda Hess,

## Jon Caramanica,

## Gia Kourlas

## and Wesley Morris

</div>

<div class="dropcap">

### In 2019,

</div>

<div class="copy">

we take our entertainment in microdoses. A complete story may be
unspooled in a fleeting video snippet, a tweet, a GIF. The social media
app TikTok has built an entire world on that premise, amassing a vast
global collection of 15-second clips that are changing the way we sing,
dance, pose, joke, dress, collaborate and cook. It is home to comedy
sketches, dance challenges, makeshift runway shows and short-short
films. The most ambitious ones arrive as mini-epics, complete with
soundtracks, visual effects and narrative arcs.

<div class="innertok">

[](https://www.tiktok.com/@thisaintjay/video/6734489584509537541)

###### @thisaintjay

</div>

TikTok was started in 2017 by the Chinese company ByteDance, but only
recently has it gained real traction in the United States. (Though this
country is by no means the center of creative gravity, which is a part
of its appeal.) TikTok is a kind of Frankenstein’s monster of
micro-video platforms — reminiscent of the defunct app Vine, it is an
international clone of ByteDance’s Chinese app Douyin, and last year
merged with the popular lip-syncing
app[](http://musical.ly/)[Musical.ly](http://musical.ly/) — but it is
now a cultural force all its own. This year, it produced a bona fide
crossover celebrity: Lil Nas X emerged from the platform’s viral soup as
a fully-formed pop star, shattering records with his song “Old Town
Road” after it became a popular soundtrack for TikTok dance routines.

And yet there is something about TikTok’s presence in mainstream culture
— as a testing ground for “real” stars, as an Emmys joke about what the
kids are into — that underestimates the power of the thing itself. It
feels as if there are endless TikTok universes unfolding all at once.
And so last week, over 48 hours, five critics of The New York Times with
different specialties and varying familiarity with the app took a look
at what it has to offer.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-poniewozik" class="g-container g-poniewozik">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="one" class="spacer big">

</div>

<div class="subauthor James Poniewozik">

##### James Poniewozik

</div>

<div class="role James Poniewozik">

##### TV Critic

</div>

<div class="copy">

### Bite-Size, Low-Tech TV

The scene: someone’s backyard. The star: a pine cone, to which someone
has attached googly eyes, Popsicle-stick arms and a string. An unseen
force tugs on the line, and the pine cone (his name is Willy) ascends
spiraling heavenward, to the gushing chorus of Josh Groban’s “You Raise
Me Up.”

The video is 11 seconds of perfect idiocy. I have laughed every time I
watched it; I am laughing as I type this out. It’s absurd and low-tech
and parodic but also — can an inanimate seed cluster be *joyful*? Well,
this one is. The clip is like the climax to an inspirational movie no
one will ever make.

This, I discovered after recently downloading TikTok for the first time,
is the beauty of the platform. Like Vine before it, it’s all climaxes.
It’s all punch lines and dance outbursts and dramatic (or comedic)
reveals.

As a professional TV watcher in 2019, I’m immersed in maximalist video —
Netflix binges, “Game of Thrones.” Yet what we often take away from
these giant entertainments are the moments: the “Neverending Story”
singalong in “Stranger Things,” Arya Stark leaping out of the dark at
the Night King.

TikTok gives you nothing but the singalongs and leaps. It is not a
21-course meal. It’s a bottomless gumball machine, serving up ephemeral
treats. *Flick —* hamster eating a tiny pancake\! *Flick —* guy
vacuum-sealing himself into a garbage
bag\!

<div class="innertok">

[](https://www.tiktok.com/@kaylacoste/video/6739219005397044485?u_code=d77ehf2j7m0d81&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570111059&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6713156519594181637&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m)

###### @itsyagirlheatha

</div>

This is not “TV” as recognizable to anyone who grew up when televisions
were furniture. It’s what TV becomes when it’s something you pull out of
your pocket, standing on a cashier line, sitting on a bus.

So fittingly, it belongs creatively to people who were holding a screen
since they could make a fist. Videos are set in teenage bedrooms,
classrooms, suburban living rooms. A girl dances to audio of her mom
arguing with her boyfriend (\#someonegetmymomagoodman), an unsettling
slice of dark irony. A group of friends creates an “Avengers assemble”
tableau by jumping backward into a swimming pool, then reversing the
video. A dancer busts an intricate set of moves to a Drake song in front
of a kitchen island, while an older man — her dad? — wanders into the
frame in the background, unnoticed.

It’s easy for An Old on TikTok — certainly this middle-aged viewer,
maybe anyone north of 20 — to feel like the wandering dad in the
hallway, an interloper in an impenetrable hangout of references, [Billie
Eilish memes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nuYM4jKOick) and comedy
bits about homework, driver’s ed and \#dormlife.

But the more time I spent with the app, the more I realized that any
feeling of exclusion I had was my own baggage. The pervasive feeling I
got from TikTok was inclusion. It wasn’t, like Instagram, trying to
persuade me of its users’ happiness, or, like Twitter, of their
rightness. Instead the vibe is: Look at this cool thing I did. What can
you do?

I don’t know if I’ve developed a new habit; my streaming and TiVo
backlogs have too great a hold on me. But the beauty of this new
relationship is how little commitment it demands. TikTok is there,
whenever I want to be raised up, for 11 seconds at a time.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-hess" class="g-container g-hess">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="two" class="spacer big">

</div>

<div class="subauthor Amanda Hess">

##### Amanda Hess

</div>

<div class="role Amanda Hess">

##### Critic-at-Large

</div>

<div class="copy">

### A Selfish Social Network

TikTok is often referred to as a “social” network, but I’m not there to
make friends. I feel no need to follow anyone I know, or to follow
anyone at all, or to attract followers myself. When I am TikTok user
@amandahess88, I am free.

Platforms like Facebook and Instagram have trapped us in the slippage
between personal and public, consumption and production. We use them to
chase pleasure at the same time as we perform reputational maintenance,
and this seeds our delight with a sense of duty. We like being in these
spaces even as we feel that we are not quite allowed to leave. Our
images and observations are weighted with power relationships. “Liking”
a thing may also fulfill an obligation to a friend, or help to cultivate
a work relationship.

But when I tap the heart icon on TikTok, I do so selfishly. I “like” to
tell the algorithm that I like something, and to teach it how to provide
me more things that I like. Inverting the impulse of every other major
social app, TikTok defaults not to content from people you have chosen
to follow but to content the algorithm has chosen for you. This has made
it the only platform for which the term “algorithm” has, for me, a
positive connotation.

The “algorithmic timelines” on Instagram and Twitter breed suspicion
that looser, messier posts are being hidden from view, obscured by
carefully framed announcements of engagements and jobs, pregnancies and
euthanized pets. These platforms operate with a brittle predictability.
But TikTok deals in the illusion, at least, of revelation. Even if all
I’m doing is tapping my screen, “discovering” new videos has the feel
of an internet treasure hunt. (That may be deceptive: The Guardian
reports that
ByteDance[](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/sep/25/revealed-how-tiktok-censors-videos-that-do-not-please-beijing)[instructs
its
moderators](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/sep/25/revealed-how-tiktok-censors-videos-that-do-not-please-beijing)
to censor or downplay material that might offend the Chinese
government.) They have now become a central draw of *other* social
platforms, as friends cross-post the gems from their feeds — the guy
who[](http://vm.tiktok.com/fVUQAG/)[cooks in a
stream](http://vm.tiktok.com/fVUQAG/) in the Chinese countryside,
surfaced by[](https://twitter.com/jaycaspiankang)[Jay Caspian
Kang](https://twitter.com/jaycaspiankang), or
the[](http://vm.tiktok.com/fVHnMK/)[young rural
supermodel](http://vm.tiktok.com/fVHnMK/) found
by[](https://twitter.com/dodaistewart)[Dodai
Stewart](https://twitter.com/dodaistewart).

<div class="innertok">

[](https://www.tiktok.com/@whiskeylover311/video/6695561872676048133?u_code=d74k67k9e5617b&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570040014&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6710526270067426310&tt_from=more&utm_source=more&enter_from=h5_m)

###### @whiskeylover311

</div>

Though TikTok videos seem to arrive with the guilelessness of
under-the-covers childhood play, their creators are highly skilled
semiprofessionals who are entertaining me, and building TikTok into a
mammoth platform, for no direct monetary rewards. I realize that my
uncomplicated relationship with TikTok is a gift afforded by age; I am
so far outside of the demographic that aspires to be a TikTok creator
that I could be the demographic’s mother. When I tap the heart on some
high school kid’s weird video, I feel a flicker of pride, as if I am
supporting him in some way. But all I am really doing is demanding more.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-Caramanica" class="g-container g-Caramanica">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="three" class="spacer big">

</div>

<div class="subauthor Jon Caramanica">

##### Jon Caramanica

</div>

<div class="role Jon Caramanica">

##### Pop Music Critic

</div>

<div class="copy">

### Music and Culture in a Warp-Speed Blender

A South Asian teen screaming at his haplessly silent grandmother over a
decontextualized hip-hop snippet. A goth girl doing a dance routine in a
Walmart. A young woman turning the profane bits of one of the raunchiest
rap songs of all time into guttural animal shrieks.

TikTok moves at something faster than warp speed, and crucial to its joy
is its reliance on the hard contrast: Why is this person doing this
thing, and why does the jolt feel so good?

Lost, or at least muddied, in that permanent triggering system is that
TikTok creates cultural blurring on an astounding scale. It is an
appropriation accelerant. Swimming in it for a while makes clear how
easily the app jumbles together inputs and references, with varying
levels of comfort and discomfort: white kids rapping along with hip-hop;
seemingly straight bros playing with queer aesthetics; young people of
all races embracing cowboy styles; and adolescents from many countries
using common soundtracks for skits about timeless teen problems. All you
need to participate is a phone and a desire to be
seen.

<div class="innertok">

[](https://www.tiktok.com/@melon.dudee/video/6740756154743360774?u_code=cm1d04c8g06e8k&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570133566&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6532049790534942722&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m)

###### @melon.dudee

</div>

Music is key to TikTok — essentially every clip has a soundtrack, and
you can press the spinning icon in the bottom right corner to see other
clips that use the same audio. Scrolling through that page is the
Infinite Remix.

Much of the music is hip-hop, though often stripped down to just a
couple of key sentences. With its reduction of people to human GIFs,
TikTok all but eradicates traditional norms about cultural ownership. It
can be difficult to identify source material — often songs are listed
under completely different names than their actual titles, reminding me
of the wild file-sharing days of early Napster, when you were never
quite sure what you were downloading until you hit play.

After dipping in and out of TikTok for a few months now, I’ve come to
believe it perceives music as a bug, not a feature. The app’s success
depends on its ability to vacuum up audio pulled from anywhere, at any
time, but rarely is it interested in the song as an end. Instead, it is
a means to a simple dance routine, or an easily replicated
micro-narrative.

Occasionally, a snippet that animates the app becomes a song that
escapes into the real world. Lil Nas X was able to reverse engineer
mainstream fame from the spare parts of viral engagement. But even now,
months later, it’s unclear whether he’s more meaningful as the
soundtrack to a million journeys, or as a destination of his own.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-kourlas" class="g-container g-kourlas">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="four" class="spacer big">

</div>

<div class="subauthor Gia Kourlas">

##### Gia Kourlas

</div>

<div class="role Gia Kourlas">

##### Dance Critic

</div>

<div class="copy">

### Dance Like a Billion People Are Watching

You look at TikTok and think the world is a musical. This celebration —
of movement, of bodies, of dance — is addictive, and not just to watch
but to do.

Tutorials, in which steps are broken down, are ubiquitous — instructors
demonstrate each action of a movement phrase and then perform the dance
full-out. (For some reason, these instructional videos are less tedious
than those found on YouTube.) Now the performances happening on my train
as it crosses the Williamsburg Bridge have branched out, from seasoned
street or subway dancers to amateurs practicing footwork. These buoyant
steps, repeatable and ranging in complexity, should really be part of a
metabolic workout, but you can do them anywhere. I practice them when
I’m stuck in traffic during a run.

What makes TikTok so magnetic is not just the frequency of dance, but
the unspoken truth of this performative genre. When it comes to dancing,
there are no rules: Everyone can move. Here, the amateur is just as
revered as the professional, a belief that has its roots with Judson
Dance Theater, the 1960s collective that ushered in postmodern dance.
Its founding members were highly trained, but its performers could come
from
anywhere.

<div class="innertok">

[](https://www.tiktok.com/@live.collegiate.shag/video/6740735611616939270?u_code=cm1d04c8g06e8k&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570113651&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6532049790534942722&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m)

###### @live.collegiate.shag

</div>

Most of us in the dance world know that to be true — that dancers come
in many forms — but TikTok has opened up that philosophy to the greater
world. And it has the whole world moving: a basketball coach on the
court, a woman in front of a lake with a hoop as a partner, a couple
performing the collegiate shag in the rain in New Orleans.

While Instagram and YouTube love dance, TikTok has figured out how to
put on a show, one challenge at a time. There’s the
\#DipandLeanChallenge, a rapid-fire showcase of different street dances,
like the Milly Rock, the Floss, the Dougie and the Roy Purdy, or
\#SwanDance, which features people extending their legs at different
levels to form a wing — sometimes seriously, sometimes not. It’s a
rabbit hole of interpretation and technique.

A dance — even a short one — erodes over time, as Twyla Tharp proved in
her 1970 classic “The One Hundreds,” which starts with two trained
dancers performing 100 11-second movement sequences; next, five dancers
perform 20 of them; and in the end, 100 ordinary people perform one of
the 11-second sequences. It’s three different views of the same dance
performed under different circumstances, and it’s usually a mess by the
end. TikTok is that, too, for dance: unruly, witty and beautiful, with
the continual possibility of invention and rejuvenation. There’s always
a new challenge waiting to be born and, most important, willing bodies
to see it through.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-morris" class="g-container g-morris">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="five" class="spacer big">

</div>

<div class="subauthor Wesley Morris">

##### Wesley Morris

</div>

<div class="role Wesley Morris">

##### Critic-at-Large

</div>

<div class="copy">

### When 15 Seconds Is Not Enough

Remember the shopping mall? It’s dying. But now your phone’s a mall.
Your phone is actually a mall full of other malls. One of those malls is
TikTok. And TikTok is an infinite mall. Excusing the ads, there’s
nothing to buy. But there are people to watch, infinite amounts of
people. Lately, the first TikTok people I see are doing the “I Used to
Be So Beautiful Now Look at Me” dance. It’s set to a snippet of a catchy
club-pop track, “Absolutely Anything.” But everybody calls it the TikTok
song.

In the opening halves of their clips, users mouth the lyrics, usually in
sweats. (This is the “used to be so beautiful” part.) Then, in time with
a stutter in the beat, they cross both arms above their heads or in
front of their middles, and whip them up and down two times, like salad
days Britney Spears. And suddenly they’re hot zombies or flirty
princesses, walking in place but sexily. (The “look at me” part.) There
are scores and scores of “Used to Be” videos. And falling into a pit of
them is better than people-watching at the mall yet entirely in the
mall’s bargain spirit, since you get two people in one.

Not everything is so literal-clever at the TikTok mall. The users you’re
watching can be obnoxious. A guy heaves a watermelon into the ceiling of
a Target and runs when it falls explosively on the floor. (A million and
a half people liked that one.) They can be banal. Few of the “nope/yup”
TikToks — in which people lip-sync over the misty opening chimes of
E-40’s “Choices” (“nope … yup”) while questions (“Am I straight?”)
hover over them — did it for me. The funny thing about the app is how
quickly it can turn you from onlooker to rummager — swiping for magic
until you find some, until you settle for something — to judge.

After a few hours at the mall, I realized I was fishing hard for fun I
didn’t need. I’m not a 10th grader unhappy in social studies. I don’t
have time to be this bored. What I really needed was on Twitter. What I
needed was @SupremeDreams\_1, the handle of a person named Mark
Phillips. There’s nothing I’ve seen on TikTok like the crisis-satire
video he posted last week: “How They Expect You to React When You Get an
Amber Alert.” In the clip, when an alert comes through, a dude springs
into action and joins an all-black-bro rescue caravan. This thing moves
with so much mocking emergency and shock craftsmanship that brilliance
rises out of the absurdity. It’s like a “Key & Peele” sketch under the
director Tony Scott’s command, 48 seconds long (that’s all\!) and way
more exciting than what currently seems possible with TikTok’s twee,
one-dimensional starter
kit.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="g-foot" class="g-container g-foot">

<div class="bgtiktok">

</div>

<div class="bodycopy">

<div class="padder">

<div id="creditbox" class="credits">

#### Credits

  

### Background TikToks in order of appearance: [@lxurentaylor](https://www.tiktok.com/@lxurentaylor/video/6740257829669702918?u_code=cm1d04c8g06e8k&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570113783&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6532049790534942722&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@billyandwilly7](https://www.tiktok.com/@billyandwilly7/video/6734337294737689862?u_code=d77ehf2j7m0d81&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570110967&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6713156519594181637&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@ourfire](https://www.tiktok.com/@ourfire/video/6709507632148778246?u_code=dcg62&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570475625&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=3792541&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@xowiejones](https://www.tiktok.com/@xowiejones/video/6733306306926497030?u_code=cm1d04c8g06e8k&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570133527&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6532049790534942722&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@tmdad14](https://www.tiktok.com/@tmdad14/video/6741781657105304838?u_code=cm1d04c8g06e8k&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570133749&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6532049790534942722&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@lesliecontreras\_](https://www.tiktok.com/@lesliecontreras_/video/6741114172869807366?u_code=d5hc8h6d3f7dm6&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570460952&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6678756474238338053&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m), [@eggrollblunt](https://www.tiktok.com/@eggrollblunt/video/6719592982695267589?u_code=d77ehf2j7m0d81&preview_pb=0&language=en&timestamp=1570111008&utm_campaign=client_share&app=musically&utm_medium=ios&user_id=6713156519594181637&tt_from=copy&utm_source=copy&enter_from=h5_m)

  

### Produced by Shannon Lin and Alicia DeSantis.

</div>

<div id="spacer" class="spacer footer">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Read 18
Comments

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
