Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Social Security Is Worth
More Than You Think, but Needs Your Help

\url{https://nyti.ms/36I6LhY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=03474fc0-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=034776d0-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=034776d1-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=034776d2-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=034776d3-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=034776d4-f52d-11ea-85d5-a5147cba864a\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

strategies

\hypertarget{social-security-is-worth-more-than-you-think-but-needs-your-help}{%
\section{Social Security Is Worth More Than You Think, but Needs Your
Help}\label{social-security-is-worth-more-than-you-think-but-needs-your-help}}

Low interest rates have made Social Security more valuable. But the
coronavirus crisis is likely to make its long-term shortfall worse.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/31/business/26VIRUS-STRATEGIES-01/merlin_170580171_4e6985f3-9dd6-4dcc-bc65-b7c3661eacb4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeff-sommer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jeff-sommer/author-jeff-sommer-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeff-sommer}{Jeff Sommer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The stock market has been erratic, real estate is hurting, bond yields
are painfully low and dividends are shrinking. In the coronavirus
recession, most financial assets have been disturbingly volatile.

But one widely held financial asset, perhaps the most important one for
the vast majority of Americans, has performed splendidly: their stake in
Social Security.

It hasn't merely been a solid support for millions of people in a
difficult time. While the income-producing power of so many other assets
has been sapped by economic weakness and low interest rates, Social
Security payments have held steady. And thanks to those rock-bottom
interest rates, the market value of the Social Security income stream
has soared in a measurable way.

You may not think of Social Security as a personal asset, like a bank
account, a portfolio of stocks and bonds or a house. But Social Security
retirement benefits are a kind of annuity, as I'll explain, and
annuities have a definite market value. Considered this way, Social
Security's value has been rising. Even if you aren't receiving payments
now, you have a stake in the asset, and it is in your interest to
protect it.

``The most important financial asset for most Americans by far is Social
Security,'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/05/04/your-money/a-path-to-retirement-for-those-far-from-it.html}{William
J. Bernstein}, a financial adviser and author on financial subjects.
``We are in a retirement crisis, and the only foreseeable answer is
Social Security.''

Perhaps if more people understood the impressive, countercyclical
performance of their share in Social Security, there would be more
clamor to protect it. But critical as the benefits are proving to be in
this crisis, as in so many others, the entire Social Security system
faces a cash shortfall down the road, and it needs help from Congress.
The pandemic has complicated these
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/12/business/social-security-shortfall-2020.html}{long-term
issues}, which can be resolved only in Washington.

First, consider the good news.

In the coronavirus crisis, Social Security has succeeded in doing just
what it was designed to do: keeping old people, disabled people and
their dependents out of dire poverty, and providing a retirement cushion
for nearly everyone else.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{23h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{25h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{26h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

About\href{https://www.ssa.gov/news/press/factsheets/basicfact-alt.pdf}{178
million}working people of all ages are covered by Social Security,
government statistics show. Even if those people are not eligible for
benefits now, they will be entitled to them later. Plenty of people are
already getting them, however: About 65 million Americans will receive
more than \$1 trillion this year. That includes nine out of 10 of those
65 and older, as well as millions of disabled people, dependents and
survivors.

With more than 100,000 Covid-19 deaths in America and millions of people
financially desperate, a program that supplies regular income to so many
can surely be said to be more valuable than ever.

But I concede that is a subjective judgment. The program has also risen
in value in a measurable way that may not be intuitively obvious.

This is a little wonky, so bear with me.

Financial markets put a price on almost everything, and they can provide
an approximate cash value for Social Security, too.

Your benefits, now or in the future, accrue gradually, over years of
work and paying taxes into the Social Security system. But as I
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/business/strategies-investing-interest-rates.html}{pointed
out}recently, low interest rates have reduced bond yields and made
commercial annuities extremely expensive.

With the help of
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/policy/authors/KintzelDale.html}{Dale
Kintzel}, a former Social Security economist who studied its
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/issuepapers/ip2017-01.html\#mt18}{pricing}in
a 2017 paper, I've checked the market values of annuities and compared
them with Social Security.

Those federal retirement benefits are essentially annuities: bonds
wrapped in insurance.

So-called single-premium immediate annuities --- in which an insurance
company will provide you with income, in exchange for a sum of cash ---
can't do everything Social Security does, but they come close.
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/issuepapers/ip2017-01.html\#mt18}{Mr.
Kintzel} has used annuities to approximate the cash value of Social
Security benefits. Those values are startlingly high.

Mr. Kintzel found that for the average 65-year-old man, who
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/policy/docs/statcomps/supplement/2019/5a.html\#table5.a1.1}{last
year} received a retirement benefit of \$1,375 a month, an annuity
supplying that lifetime cash flow would cost at least \$459,866 --- 13
percent more than a comparable annuity in 2014.

For a 65-year-old woman, the average monthly benefit was \$1,102 last
year. A comparable commercial annuity, Mr. Kintzel said, would cost
\$368,562.

These figures are based on data from
\href{https://www.immediateannuities.com/}{immediateannuities.com},
which tracks annuity prices.

These are just average amounts and would be much bigger --- perhaps as
much as \$1 million --- for high-income people who delay claiming
benefits until they are 70, my own calculations suggest.

Note that all of these estimates understate the value of Social
Security, which provides disability benefits and supplemental income in
addition to basic retirement benefits. And these estimates don't take
into account the effects of the further decline in interest rates since
the beginning of this year, which have reduced income streams from many
assets, but not for Social Security.

Perhaps the best thing about Social Security is that unlike a stock
portfolio, it can be counted on, Mr. Kintzel said. ``It is backed by the
government, and so it's virtually risk-free, or it should be. I've
always thought that Social Security is one thing that everybody can
agree on. It's a good thing.''

Yet Social Security continues to have an odd problem. Although its
stability has been among its greatest virtues, it remains underfunded.

I
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/12/business/social-security-shortfall-2020.html}{pointed
ou}t a year ago that Social Security benefit payouts were greater than
the system's revenues. That is still true. To receive all of the
benefits you have been promised, a reluctant Congress will need to fix
Social Security, which is likely to dip into the principal of its trust
funds for the first time this year. Interest payments from the trust
funds have made up the gap, allowing full benefits until now.

Without help from Congress, these trust funds, are likely to be
exhausted within 15 years --- and perhaps sooner. If that were to
happen, benefits would be cut, perhaps to 79 percent of the promised
levels, Social Security
\href{https://www.ssa.gov/OACT/TRSUM/index.html}{estimates}.

In an online
\href{https://bipartisanpolicy.org/event/the-impact-of-covid-19-on-social-security-and-highlights-from-the-trustees-2020-report/}{conference}
in late April, Stephen C. Goss, Social Security's chief actuary, said
that the current recession would almost certainly reduce the system's
payroll tax receipts and could lead to trust fund depletion by 2033 or
even sooner. Precise estimates are impossible now, with the economy
shrinking so rapidly, he said. ``All bets are off, and we will just have
to see what happens, because we really don't know whether we'll be back
to normal,'' Mr. Goss said.

As a matter of basic math, Social Security needs more revenue or lower
expenses. But I think this recession suggests that increasing revenue is
the way to go, because Social Security benefits have been so crucial. If
they were to be cut, even bigger rescue programs would be needed from
other sources. Far better to maintain and improve Social Security, which
works automatically and well.

Last year, I
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/21/your-money/social-security.html}{said}
that the most important thing you could probably do to improve your
personal finances was to make sure that Congress took action to bolster
the program's funding. That's even truer today, when its benefits are
more valuable, and more badly needed.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
