Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}The World Is Taking Pity on Us

\url{https://nyti.ms/2We4esb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-world-is-taking-pity-on-us}{%
\section{The World Is Taking Pity on
Us}\label{the-world-is-taking-pity-on-us}}

Will American prestige ever recover?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-egan}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/11/opinion/timothy-egan/timothy-egan-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/timothy-egan}{Timothy
Egan}

Contributing Opinion Writer

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/08/opinion/08Egan3/08Egan3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In 1847, members of the Choctaw Nation sent relief money across the
Atlantic to a starving Ireland --- something the Irish, who lost more
than a million people in a famine made worse by British indifference,
have never forgotten. The Irish are now giving financial aid to Native
American tribes hit with a pandemic that has been made worse by American
incompetence.

This is a gracious act,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/world/coronavirus-ireland-native-american-tribes.html}{a
boomerang of good will}, as reported by my colleagues Ed O'Loughlin and
Mihir Zaveri. But it also shows how much of the world has started to
feel sorry for a nation laid low by the lethal ineptitude of President
Trump.

``The country Trump promised to make great again has never in its
history seemed so pitiful,''
\href{https://www.irishtimes.com/opinion/fintan-o-toole-donald-trump-has-destroyed-the-country-he-promised-to-make-great-again-1.4235928}{wrote
Fintan O'Toole} in The Irish Times. And he asked: ``Will American
prestige ever recover from this shameful episode?''

Before we take up O'Toole's question, let's look at where we rank in the
worst global crisis since World War II. In Trump's assessment, his
government has done a
``\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/05/01/world/meanwhile-in-america-may-1/index.html}{spectacular
job}'' with the Covid-19 pandemic.

``And I'll tell you,
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-marine-one-departure-89/}{the
whole world is excited watching us} because we're leading the world,''
he said, in an updated pat on the back this week.

He's right about the leading part: Every 49 seconds or so, throughout
the first week in May,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{an
American has been dying of this disease}. With 1.3 million reported
cases, the United States, just five percent of the world's population,
has nearly \href{https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/}{33 percent
of the sick}. With more than 75,000 deaths, we're at the front of the
pack as well. No country comes close on all three measures.

Globally, the average death rate is 34 people per million residents. In
the United States, it's more than six times higher --- 232 per million.

South Korea and the United States both reported their first cases of
Covid-19 at the same time, in the third week of January.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/23/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-flatten-curve.html}{South
Korea} immediately started testing on a mass scale and socially
isolating. The United States denied, dithered and did next to nothing
for more than two months.

By the end of April, new cases in South Korea were down to
\href{https://www.statista.com/statistics/1102777/south-korea-covid-19-daily-new-cases/}{less
than 10 a day}. In the United States at that time, the pandemic raged at
a daily rate of more than 25,000 newly sick. New Zealand, which also
quickly went into lockdown,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/05/03/world/asia/03reuters-health-coronavirus-newzealand-toll.html}{reported
no new cases} earlier this week for the first time since mid-March.

``The United States reacted like Pakistan or Belarus, like a country
with a shoddy infrastructure and a dysfunctional government whose
leaders were too corrupt or stupid to head off mass suffering.'' That's
the indictment of
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2020/06/underlying-conditions/610261/}{The
Atlantic's George Packer}, calling the United States a failed state.

He's half right. As scientists note, you can't stop an outbreak from
happening, but you can stop it from becoming a catastrophe that brings
down a society. The United States
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/opinion/sunday/covid-inequality-health-care.html}{spends
more on health care}, per capita, than any other rich nation. And yet,
here we are: a full-blown disaster, in lockdown with a narcissist for a
president.

A country that turned out eight combat aircraft every hour at the peak
of World War II could not even produce enough 75-cent masks or simple
cotton nasal swabs for testing in this pandemic.

A country that showed the world how to defeat polio now promotes quack
remedies involving household disinfectants from the presidential podium.

A country that rescued postwar Europe with the Marshall Plan didn't even
bother to show up this week at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/04/world/europe/eu-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{teleconference
of global leaders} pledging contributions for a coronavirus vaccine.

A country that sent George Patton and Dwight Eisenhower to crush the
Nazis now fights a war against a viral killer with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/us/jared-kushner-fema-coronavirus.html}{Jared
Kushner}, a feckless failed real estate speculator who holds power by
virtue of his marriage to the president's daughter.

Let's not put too much of the blame on Kushner. After all, he's also got
Middle East peace, the border wall, the opioid crisis and reinventing
the government on his plate.
``\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-meeting-governor-murphy-new-jersey/}{Who's
in charge} of it?'' Trump said recently, about the ``Warp Speed''
vaccine development program. ``Honestly? I am. I'll tell you, I'm really
in charge of it.''

Well, then: Where is the test and trace program needed to safely reopen
the country? Where is the national plan even to consider such an effort?
Trump has surrendered. He never looked smaller or more pathetic than
when sitting last Sunday on his little chair in front of the Lincoln
Memorial.

America has a failed federal government, laughed at and pitied the world
over. But America is not a failed state. It will be saved by its
scientists and doctors, its hospitals and universities, its nimble and
creative companies, and leaders in the statehouses who act more
decisively than the family of frauds in the White House.

Perhaps it is best to let the coronavirus task force die a miserable
death. It's mostly show and ego projection.

As to the Irishman's question: Will American prestige ever recover? Not
for some time. Our image abroad took a real hit after Trump's election,
and it has continued to fall. Most of the world now has no confidence in
the president's leadership.

But then, the same is true with most Americans. Welcome to our
nightmare.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Timothy Egan (@nytegan) is a contributing opinion writer who covers the
environment, the American West and politics. He is a winner of the
National Book Award and author, most recently, of ``A Pilgrimage to
Eternity.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
