Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Faces Mounting
Defections From a Once-Loyal Group: Older White Voters

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZfqxhA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-faces-mounting-defections-from-a-once-loyal-group-older-white-voters}{%
\section{Trump Faces Mounting Defections From a Once-Loyal Group: Older
White
Voters}\label{trump-faces-mounting-defections-from-a-once-loyal-group-older-white-voters}}

No Democrat has won or broken even with voters over 65 in two decades.
But seniors' dismay about President Trump could change that.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/29/us/politics/29seniors-poll1/merlin_162061284_69d20495-9cd8-466b-869b-7ddc7676fad7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 28, 2020Updated July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Clifford Wagner, an 80-year-old Republican in Tucson, Ariz., never cared
for President Trump.

He supported Jeb Bush in the 2016 presidential primary race and cast a
protest vote in the general election for Gary Johnson, the Libertarian
nominee. An Air Force veteran, Mr. Wagner described the Trump presidency
as a mortifying experience: His friends in Europe and Japan tell him the
United States has become ``the laughingstock of the world.''

This year, Mr. Wagner said he would register his opposition to Mr. Trump
more emphatically than he did in 2016. He plans to vote for Joseph R.
Biden Jr., the presumptive Democratic nominee, and hopes the election is
a ruinous one for the Republican Party.

``I'm a Christian, and I do not believe in the hateful, racist, bigoted
speech that the president uses,'' Mr. Wagner said, adding, ``As much as
I never thought I'd say this, I hope we get a Democratic president, a
Democratic-controlled Senate and maintain a Democratic-controlled
House.''

Mr. Wagner is part of one of the most important maverick voting groups
in the 2020 general election: conservative-leaning seniors who have
soured on the Republican Party over the past four years.

Republican presidential candidates typically carry older voters by solid
margins, and in his first campaign Mr. Trump bested Hillary Clinton by
seven percentage points with voters over 65. He won white seniors by
nearly triple that margin.

Today, Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden are tied among seniors, according to a
poll of registered voters conducted by The New York Times and Siena
College. And in the six most important battleground states, Mr. Biden
has established a clear upper hand, leading Mr. Trump by six percentage
points among the oldest voters and nearly matching the president's
support among whites in that age group.

That is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/27/us/politics/biden-trump-seniors.html}{no
small advantage} for Mr. Biden, the former vice president, given the
prevalence of retirement communities in a few of those crucial states,
including Arizona and Florida.

No Democrat has won or broken even with seniors in two decades, since Al
Gore in 2000 devoted much of his general-election campaign to warning
that Republicans would cut popular programs like Social Security and
Medicare. In 2016, Mr. Trump, now 74, seemed in some ways keenly attuned
to the political sensitivities of voters in his own age group. As a
candidate, he bluntly rejected his party's longstanding interest in
restructuring government guarantees of retirement security.

But Mr. Trump's presidency has been a trying experience for many of
these voters, some of whom are now so frustrated and disillusioned that
they are preparing to take the drastic step of supporting a Democrat.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T14:19:33.781Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-24333e8c}{Trump
  downplays John Lewis's accomplishments and nurses a grudge: `He didn't
  come to my inauguration.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3c437e05}{Election
  experts will tell Congress that federal funding is needed to prevent
  widespread disenfranchisement.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The grievances of these defecting seniors are familiar, most or all of
them shared by their younger peers. But these voters often express
themselves with a particularly sharp kind of dismay and disappointment.
They see Mr. Trump as coarse and disrespectful, divisive to his core and
failing persistently to comport himself with the dignity of the other
presidents that they have observed for more than half a century. ****
The Times poll also found that most seniors disapproved of Mr. Trump's
handling of race relations and his handling of the protests after the
death of George Floyd.

And as the coronavirus pandemic continues to sweep the country, putting
older Americans at particular risk, these voters feel a special kind of
frustration and betrayal with Mr. Trump's ineffective leadership and
often-blas√© public comments about the crisis.

The president has urged the country to return to life-as-usual far more
quickly than the top public-health officials in his own administration
have recommended. Some prominent Republican officials and conservative
pundits have even suggested at times that older people should be willing
to risk their own health for the sake of a quicker resumption of the
business cycle.

In The Times poll, seniors in the battleground states disapproved of Mr.
Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic by seven points, 52 percent
to 45 percent. By a 26-point margin, this group said the federal
government should prioritize containing the pandemic over reopening the
economy.

Former Representative Carlos Curbelo of Florida, a 40-year-old
Republican deeply versed in the politics of the retiree-rich swing
state, said many seniors were disturbed by important aspects of Mr.
Trump's record and found Mr. Biden a mild and respectable alternative
who did not inspire the same antipathy on the right that Mrs. Clinton
did in 2016.

Regarded by much of his own party as bland and conventional, Mr. Biden's
nostalgia-cloaked candidacy may be uniquely equipped to ease a sizable
group of right-of-center seniors into the Democratic column, at least
for one election.

``He's not ever been known to be a radical or an extreme leftist or
liberal, so there is certainly a degree of comfort there,'' Mr. Curbelo
said. He added: ``This public health crisis is so threatening,
especially to seniors, and because the president hasn't earned high
marks in his handling of it, I think that has also been a factor in
Biden's improving numbers.''

Mr. Biden and his allies have expressed growing excitement about the
political possibilities that the shifting senior vote could create in
the fall. That is true not only in Sun Belt retirement havens but also
in Midwestern states where Mr. Biden is currently running well ahead of
Mrs. Clinton's 2016 performance with a range of conservative-leaning
constituencies, including older whites.

In Iowa, former Gov. Tom Vilsack, a close Biden ally, said the former
vice president had closed a substantial deficit in the state through his
response to the coronavirus, his connection with older rural voters and
his ability to empathize.

``Part of it is the demeanor he has projected during the course of this
pandemic,'' Mr. Vilsack said, before acknowledging, ``As much as Joe's
doing, it's probably as much or more what the president has done or
failed to do.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/26/us/politics/00seniors2/merlin_163183287_2fd1acc0-91ac-4de3-a027-45d70e4a3f08-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

He cited
\href{https://twitter.com/ProjectLincoln/status/1276112782187003904?s=20}{an
ad} from a group of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/17/opinion/lincoln-project.html}{anti-Trump
Republicans} that cast Mr. Trump's approach to crisis as erratic and
selfish, unlike past presidents who have confronted national tragedies
like the Challenger disaster and the Oklahoma City bombing.

``Each of those presidents was able to connect emotionally to the
feelings of the nation,'' Mr. Vilsack said. ``This president has had a
really, really hard time doing that.''

Mr. Trump's ineffective response to the coronavirus weighed on the
thinking of many older voters surveyed in the poll, including Patrick
Mallon, 73, a retired information technology specialist in Battle Creek,
Mich.

Mr. Mallon said he was a registered Republican who had long been unhappy
with Mr. Trump but mindful that he was presiding over a strong economy.
The pandemic set Mr. Mallon firmly against Mr. Trump's re-election.

``The main reason is Donald Trump saying, `Don't wear a mask, this thing
is going to go away, we can have large gatherings,''' he said.
``Everything he says is incorrect and dangerous to the country.''

When young people contract the coronavirus, Mr. Mallon added, ``most of
them will survive, but they're going to give it to their parents, their
grandparents --- and I'm sorry, we're just as important as that younger
generation is.''

The abandonment of Mr. Trump by older voters is far from universal, and
he still has a strong base among older white men and self-described
conservatives. Nationally, the oldest voters approve of Mr. Trump's
handling of the economy by 12 points, more than double the figure for
voters of all ages.

And in the battleground states, Mr. Trump has a 10-point lead over Mr.
Biden with white men over the age of 65, even as Mr. Biden has opened up
an advantage with white women in the same age group. Nonwhite seniors in
the battleground states currently support Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump by a
huge margin, 65 percent to 25 percent.

Even among some seniors supportive of Mr. Trump, however, there is an
undercurrent of unease about the way he approaches the presidency.

Karen Gamble, 65, of Reidsville, N.C., said that she was dissatisfied
with the overall government response to the coronavirus outbreak and
echoed many popular complaints about Mr. Trump's persona. She said she
wished, for instance, that Mr. Trump ``wouldn't be such a bully and
would conform to being in a regal-like position, as our presidents have
always been.''

Ms. Gamble said she was planning to support Mr. Trump in the election
all the same, describing Mr. Biden as too old and too compromised on
matters related to China. But Ms. Gamble, who said she has a ``severe
lung problem,'' expressed hope that Mr. Trump would change his approach
to the pandemic.

``We can't blame him for this --- how many presidents could really do
any better than what he's done?'' Ms. Gamble said, before adding: ``I
just wish he wouldn't let the country open up as much as it has. I see
all these teens and young people at the beach, and I fear for them
because now they're getting sick.''

In Tucson, Gerald Lankin, a more forceful Trump supporter, said he would
back the president mainly as a vote ``against the Democrats.'' Mr.
Lankin, 77, said he found Mr. Trump's personal manner offensive but
agreed with him on most issues and saw Democrats as ``much, much, much,
much too far to the left.''

``He hasn't really done anything that I can say I'm against,'' Mr.
Lankin said of Mr. Trump. ``I think what he's doing is the best he can.
But, boy, he is tough to take. He is a tough guy to take.''

There may be time for Mr. Trump to regain his footing with seniors,
along with several other right-leaning groups that have drifted away
during the bleakest months of his presidency. His ability to do so could
have far-reaching implications not just for his chances of winning a
second term, but also his party's ability to keep its hold on the
Senate.

At the moment, Mr. Trump's unpopularity with older voters appears to be
hindering other Republicans in states including Arizona and Michigan.

Gayle Craven, 80, of High Point, N.C., a registered Republican, said she
had not voted for Mr. Trump in 2016 and would reject him again this
year. She said she saw Mr. Biden as an ``honest man.''

``Trump is the biggest disappointment,'' she said. ``He has made America
look like idiots. I think he's an embarrassment to my country.''

Other older voters leaning toward Mr. Biden cautioned that they could
still change their minds, like Frederick Monk, 73, of Mesa, Ariz., who
said he had voted for Mr. Trump but quickly came to see him as
``incompetent.''

Still, Mr. Monk said his mind was not fully made up. If Mr. Biden
chooses an overly liberal running mate, he said he could cast a vote for
Mr. Trump and hope his second term is an exercise in futility.

``Hopefully the Democrats retake the Senate and make his next four years
miserable, if he lasts that long,'' Mr. Monk said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Five states are holding primary elections Tuesday, with voters in
    Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, Missouri and Washington State choosing
    nominees for Congress and local offices.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
