Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Pete Buttigieg Is an Iowa
Front-Runner. Will That Help Him Anywhere Else?

\url{https://nyti.ms/34sfVwG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{pete-buttigieg-is-an-iowa-front-runner-will-that-help-him-anywhere-else}{%
\section{Pete Buttigieg Is an Iowa Front-Runner. Will That Help Him
Anywhere
Else?}\label{pete-buttigieg-is-an-iowa-front-runner-will-that-help-him-anywhere-else}}

National polls have him firmly behind the leading candidates across the
country, and questions remain over Mr. Buttigieg's ability to create a
diverse coalition. But in Iowa, he's on the rise.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/04/us/politics/04buttigieg-00/04buttigieg-00-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 4, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DECORAH, Iowa --- Ask almost any Iowa Democrat, and they'll tell you:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} is smart.

He speaks multiple languages, went to Harvard University and plays the
piano, Martha Ludeking, 63, recited, as she watched the presidential
candidate take a picture with a fellow Iowan. Lori Lechtenberg, 59,
said, ``There's just something about him --- he's intelligent.'' When an
audience member asked about conditions in Gaza during a campaign stop in
Mason City, Mr. Buttigieg began responding in Arabic. The overwhelmingly
white audience, largely unaware of what he said, broke into raucous
applause.

``He's a veteran. He's a Rhodes scholar. He's everything,'' said Bret
Van Ausdall, 37. He saw Mr. Buttigieg on Sunday at the fourth stop on
his bus tour, a 72-hour whirlwind that prioritized small Iowa counties
that had drifted from Democrats in recent elections. ``The Ph.D. ratio
in this town is insane. We're science-based. We're logical people. And
he speaks to that.''

Throughout the summer months, Mr. Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend,
Ind., surpassed expectations in fund-raising and national polling, but
his success was still dismissed as a temporary blip. He was seen as a
flavor of the month in a historically large Democratic field who would
eventually be eclipsed by more traditionally qualified candidates ---
senators, governors, a former vice president.

This weekend, however, Mr. Buttigieg made clear that what was once an
upstart campaign could grow into a juggernaut in the all-important Iowa
caucuses, just three months away.

Mr. Buttigieg's critics say he is offering voters feel-good platitudes
without a proven track record of electoral success. But his supporters
say his vision, and his identity as an openly gay candidate, make him an
inherently transformative figure.

He has successfully built a sustainable ground game throughout the
state, generating buzz among voters and turning out crowds of several
hundred people in towns of just a few thousand. For growing numbers of
likely caucusgoers, he is emerging as the moderate front-runner in the
race, ahead of even former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} And he is clearly worrying some of his top rivals in the
state, like Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts, who has recently started taking implicit shots
at Mr. Buttigieg by needling candidates who have teams of consultants
and centrist ideas.

National polls still have Mr. Buttigieg firmly behind Mr. Biden, Ms.
Warren and Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont, and questions remain over Mr. Buttigieg's ability
to cobble together a coalition diverse enough to win the Democratic
primary. But the goal of the bus tour, timed to take place after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-democrats.html}{the
same Iowa dinner} that famously helped create Barack Obama's
presidential mojo in 2007, was to project Mr. Buttigieg as the closest
analogue to Mr. Obama currently in the race.

``The idea of hope may have gone out of style a little bit, but when I
look at you, I see it is not out of style,'' Mr. Buttigieg said in Des
Moines. ``Are you ready to leave no question about who has the momentum
of Iowa right now?''

He has shot up in the polls in Iowa recently and had a one-point edge
over Mr. Biden in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{a
recent New York Times/Siena College poll of Iowa voters}, within the
survey's margin of error of plus or minus 4.7 percentage points. Ms.
Warren held a slight lead in the poll, while Mr. Sanders came in second,
just ahead of Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. Biden.

On Friday, Mr. Buttigieg's supporters filled a quarter of Wells Fargo
Arena in Des Moines at the Iowa Democratic Party's annual Liberty and
Justice Dinner --- a show of organizing force greater than any other
candidate's. He held a rally for thousands near the arena before the
dinner.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In an open press setting, Mr. Buttigieg can flaunt the same political
athleticism that is attracting voters in Iowa and was a trademark of Mr.
Obama's, fielding rapid-fire questions from reporters that touch on
everything from his previous work in management consulting to his
current reading list.

To distinguish himself from his rivals, and Ms. Warren's promises of
fighting for ``big, structural change'' in particular, Mr. Buttigieg has
taken up an increasingly Obama-esque message of unity and civility.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/04/us/politics/04buttigieg-01/merlin_163834581_f4181878-4608-41aa-a227-bde54c301956-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

He asks voters to call relatives with different political beliefs, and
to talk about things other than politics. He told voters in a county
that flipped from supporting Mr. Obama to Donald Trump that political
preferences did not define their morality, and he said he welcomed
``Republicans of conscience'' to join his campaign.

``I just don't think there's good and bad people,'' Mr. Buttigieg said
later, speaking on the bus. ``When you vote for this president,
particularly when you vote for him a second time, you are at best
tolerating bad things and at worst having very bad things drawn out of
you. But I don't think that's the same as thinking the world is divided
into people who are good and people who are bad.''

With this message, and the organization he has now built in Iowa, Mr.
Buttigieg is becoming an interesting test case for the post-Obama
Democratic Party. Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders pitch a sharp break from
the past, and a willingness to ideologically upend the establishment in
ways the party has historically resisted. Mr. Biden seeks to offer a
steady hand in chaotic political times. But Mr. Buttigieg uniquely plays
to the one thing the Democratic electorate has always enjoyed: falling
in love with a new political face promising national unity and
compromise.

But swapping out the identities and résumés of the two men --- not a
black, straight senator from Illinois but a gay, white mayor from
Indiana --- can change the electoral prospects. For Mr. Obama, who was
already well-liked in black communities, the path to the Democratic
nomination was unlocked in Iowa, helping him centralize black support in
South Carolina and in the southern Democratic electorate en route to the
nomination. Black support has been the biggest question mark surrounding
Mr. Buttigieg's rise.

A recent Monmouth University
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_sc_102319/}{poll}
of likely Democratic primary voters in South Carolina, the early-voting
state where the black electorate makes up more than 60 percent of the
Democratic vote, found Mr. Buttigieg at 3 percent overall, with just 1
percent support from black respondents. Previous polls have found him at
an anemic 0 percent among black voters.

Even more, high-profile missteps and an initial campaign strategy that
relied on heavy exposure to white media and donors helped create a
reputation that Mr. Buttigieg's campaign had a blind spot for black
community politics. In these communities, where government distrust has
been earned over years of disenfranchisement, elite signals such as a
Harvard education and a Rhodes scholarship matter less than building
relationships with key gatekeepers and validators.

Over the weekend,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/julian-castro.html}{Julián
Castro}, the former housing secretary and one of Mr. Buttigieg's 2020
rivals, criticized his ``track record'' with black voters. On Monday,
Mr. Buttigieg's senior communications adviser, Lis Smith, forcefully
accused Mr. Buttigieg's critics of being biased themselves.

A police killing in South Bend exposed racial tension in Mr. Buttigieg's
hometown, and black residents have complained of persistent racial
inequality during his tenure as mayor. Mr. Buttigieg's campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/18/us/politics/buttigieg-laquan-mcdonald-lawyer.html}{backtracked
last month} after scheduling a fund-raiser with a lawyer in Chicago who
had tried to block the release of footage of the 2014 killing of Laquan
McDonald, a black teenager, by a white police officer.

Earlier in his campaign, when Mr. Buttigieg met with members of the
Congressional Black Caucus in Washington this summer, he flunked a key
test among the senior group of lawmakers. When at least three
representatives asked why he did not have black supporters from South
Bend validating him on the trail, Mr. Buttigieg told them he did not
know such signaling was important.

``It was pandering and disingenuous,'' said Representative Marcia Fudge
of Ohio, who has since endorsed Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Kamala
Harris} of California.

In the months since, as Mr. Buttigieg has professionalized his once
bare-bones operation, he has focused on adding staff that can help him
better navigate the black political class.

Brandon Neal, a senior adviser who once worked at the N.A.A.C.P., has
helped broker discussions between Mr. Buttigieg and elder civil rights
statesmen like Representative John Lewis of Georgia and Harry Belafonte.
Beltway operatives like Donna Brazile and Leah Daughtry, both
influential figures at the Democratic National Committee, have been
conduits who have helped him grow his relationships with the black
political class in Washington.

There have been some signs of progress. Mr. Buttigieg was well-received
at the recent Congressional Black Caucus Foundation dinner, where he sat
at the table of a fellow Midwestern legislator, Representative Robin
Kelly of Illinois. Lamell McMorris, a longtime black political
consultant with experience at civil rights organizations such as the
N.A.A.C.P. and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, will soon
join the campaign as a surrogate. ******

Mr. Buttigieg has repeatedly said he believes that as black Democratic
voters get to know him, he will win their support.

``I think the way to win black voters, or any voters, is to deserve to
win,'' Mr. Buttigieg said in Iowa multiple times.

Image

Mr. Buttigieg speaks at a Town Hall in Waverly, Iowa.Credit...Maddie
McGarvey for The New York Times

Still, even some Iowa supporters wondered if he was developing a
reputation as a candidate for white elites. One white audience member in
Mason City asked Mr. Buttigieg what his plan was for winning over black
voters, because that would determine his post-Iowa electoral prospects.
Another, in Decorah, said his reliance on money from big donors, who
skew overwhelmingly white, was pushing her toward candidates such as Ms.
Warren and Mr. Sanders, who had sworn off such funds.

``Pete screwed up on that one,'' said Janet Alexander, 73. ``Because
that stuff is important. It shows who you're listening to.''

On the bus tour, Mr. Buttigieg sidestepped a question about why largely
white states such as Iowa and New Hampshire get to caucus and vote
first.

He smiled and pivoted, saying the four early states --- Iowa, New
Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada --- give a good distribution of the
Democratic electorate.

Mr. Buttigieg left out another truth: The whitest ones are, to this
point, making his candidacy tick.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
