Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}In Kim Jong-nam
Killing, a Common Migration Tale Takes a Dark Turn

\url{https://nyti.ms/2lCV6cJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-kim-jong-nam-killing-a-common-migration-tale-takes-a-dark-turn}{%
\section{In Kim Jong-nam Killing, a Common Migration Tale Takes a Dark
Turn}\label{in-kim-jong-nam-killing-a-common-migration-tale-takes-a-dark-turn}}

By Chau Doan and Mike Ives

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 24, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NGHIA BINH, Vietnam --- Growing up in this village of rice paddies and
banana trees, Doan Thi Huong was known as a gentle girl and a diligent
student, her brother said.

She left home at 17 to study pharmacology in Hanoi, the capital, and has
returned home only about twice a year in the decade since, said her
brother, Doan Van Binh. He said that he rarely pressed his sister for
details about her life, and did not realize until a few days ago that
she had been working in Malaysia.

``I only hoped she was well,'' Mr. Binh said in an interview on
Thursday.

Instead, to her family's shock, Ms. Huong is a prime suspect in the Feb.
13 killing of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/15/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-assassination-north-korea.html}{Kim
Jong-nam}, the half brother of the North Korean leader,
\href{http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/k/kim_jongun/index.html?inline=nyt-per}{Kim
Jong-un}, at the airport for Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The Malaysian
authorities said Friday that Ms. Huong and an Indonesian woman, Siti
Aisyah, both of whom are in detention, had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/23/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-vx-nerve-agent-.html}{applied
a lethal nerve agent} to Mr. Kim's face.

But until her life took that bizarre turn, Ms. Huong's story appears to
have been a very familiar one.

Image

The Facebook page of Doan Thi Huong, the Vietnamese suspect in the death
of Kim Jong-nam, the North Korean leader's estranged half
brother.Credit...Associated Press

A 28-year-old whom Malaysian police officials have
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/22/world/asia/kim-jong-nam-assassination-korea-malaysia.html}{described}
as an ``entertainment outlet employee,'' Ms. Huong was one of millions
of Southeast Asians working overseas, in many cases off the books. More
than 18 million people from the region
\href{http://apmigration.ilo.org/resources/ilms-database-for-asean-international-migration-in-asean-at-a-glance}{were
working abroad} in 2013, according to United Nations data.

Ms. Huong's Facebook page suggests that she led a peripatetic lifestyle,
moving between hotel rooms in Cambodia and Malaysia in recent weeks.
While stressing that they had no information about Ms. Huong's
particular situation, experts said that Vietnamese women who work as
escorts, masseuses, prostitutes and waitresses in Southeast Asia's
wealthier cities, particularly Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, often follow
a similar pattern of movement.

Ms. Huong's posts from Malaysia, which showed her smiling coyly in
portraits and videos, hardly seemed those of a hardened assassin. Photos
showed ice cream, chicken wings and a smiling gray teddy bear propped up
on a hotel bed.

``Life is food,'' Ms. Huong wrote in one post under her alias, Ruby
Ruby. ``I can eat very much.''

Nghia Binh, Ms. Huong's hometown, lies in the Red River Delta, a largely
agricultural, densely populated region in northern Vietnam that has
severe unemployment. Hundreds of thousands of workers from the delta and
other regions have emigrated to Japan, Malaysia, South Korean and Taiwan
in recent years.

As the delta's population expands, ``there are very few viable
employment opportunities'' beyond farming, said
\href{http://findanexpert.unimelb.edu.au/display/person350058}{Lan Anh
Hoang}, a senior lecturer in development studies at the University of
Melbourne in Australia who has studied Vietnamese labor migration
extensively. ``So labor migration overseas seems like the obvious choice
for many.''

Image

Doan Thi Huong.Credit...Royal Malaysia Police

Malaysia hosted nearly 2.5 million international migrants in 2013,
according to the United Nations data, making it the largest destination
for migrant workers after Thailand in the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations, a group of 10 countries with a combined population of more than
600 million.

Many migrants, including tens of thousands of Vietnamese, travel to
Malaysia through formal labor contracts that are governed by state
quotas and arranged through accredited labor brokerages.

But that process can be corrupt, exploitative and expensive, requiring
workers to pay thousands of dollars to brokers, experts say. One result
is that some immigrants leave their jobs to work in the shadow economy,
or bypass formal contracts altogether.

As much as Southeast Asian governments try to regulate flows of migrants
across their borders, ``there will always be people who fall into the
cracks,'' said
\href{http://centerformigrantadvocacy.com/about-us/mission-and-members/ellene-a-sana/}{Ellene
A. Sana}, the executive director for the Center for Migrant Advocacy in
Manila.

Because Vietnamese are permitted to travel without visas in Singapore
and Malaysia for 30 days at a time, many Vietnamese escorts and
prostitutes travel in a constant loop through the three countries, said
Nicolas Lainez, an anthropologist in Singapore with the Paris-based
School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/25/world/25suspect-3/25suspect-3-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The lifestyle appeals to them, Mr. Lainez said, because the working
schedules offer flexibility as well as a higher income --- from about
\$700 to \$7,000 per month, compared with just a few hundred dollars for
a job on a factory assembly line.

Ms. Huong's Facebook photographs and the attached location information
indicated that she had visited Malaysia twice this year --- first in
early January and again in early February, days before Kim Jong-nam was
killed.

Her Facebook page, which appears to have been shut down, had shown no
sign of Nghia Binh, her hometown. But her father, Doan Van Thanh, said
that she visited the village during the Tet holiday that began in late
January.

Mr. Thanh said that when Ms. Huong arrived, she was short of money and
came bearing only one gift: a bonsai plant worth 100,000 Vietnamese
dong, or about \$5. She also asked her stepmother, Mr. Thanh's wife, for
a loan of 50,000 dong. ``She didn't tell me anything about going
abroad,'' he said.

Her brother, Mr. Binh, said that he was still struggling to digest the
news that Ms. Huong, who had never been a quarrelsome sibling, was now a
murder suspect.

``She loves everyone,'' he said, ``and everyone loves her.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
