Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}TikTok Ban? Creators and Fans Are
Big Mad

\url{https://nyti.ms/39RA3fr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tiktok-ban-creators-and-fans-are-big-mad}{%
\section{TikTok Ban? Creators and Fans Are Big
Mad}\label{tiktok-ban-creators-and-fans-are-big-mad}}

The uncertainty over the future of the wildly popular video app has
brought chaos to its user community --- and to the entertainment and
advertising industries as well.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/03/fashion/03TIKTOK-BAN-jp/merlin_175239750_1679928f-0500-472c-8e89-e36a5ead824b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor
Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It was a weekend of chaos on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/trump-tiktok-microsoft.html}{TikTok}
--- unleashed on Friday night when President Trump said, while aboard
Air Force One, that he might ban the video app.

The surprise announcement sent influencers in droves onto livestreams to
give possibly premature
\href{https://twitter.com/iamaliceophelia/status/1289402462957273088}{teary
and heartfelt goodbyes} to their fans, asking them to join them on apps
like Instagram, YouTube and Triller. For agencies that manage talent on
the platform, it was a long weekend of hand-holding and downloading
TikTok archives for posterity. Some users, in a last-hurrah bid for
virality, reposted TikToks they said had previously been removed by the
service for violating nudity or profanity guidelines.

Others tried to make light of the situation. Addison Easterling, 19, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/trump-tiktok-microsoft.html}{TikTok}
star who dropped out of Louisiana State University to pursue a full-time
influencer career, \href{https://vm.tiktok.com/J2T9X8K/}{posted a video
of herself} pretending to knock on the college's doors to let her back
in. ``Me at LSU tomorrow,'' she captioned it.

TikTok is known mostly for dance videos and comedic skits, but that
silliness can obscure two facts: TikTok has become a powerhouse in the
entertainment industry and the primary platform that music executives
and talent agents use to scout the next big act. And, at the same time,
especially as the election nears, the app has become an information and
organizing hub for Gen Z activists and politically-minded young people.

TikTok has had a fraught relationship with the United States government
for some time. Several administration officials, including the
president, fear the app is a security risk because its parent company,
ByteDance, is Chinese, potentially giving the Chinese government access
to American user data. TikTok and ByteDance have vehemently denied any
relationship with the Chinese government.

The president's comments suggesting he would shut down TikTok in the
United States stalled
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/tiktok-trump-sale-microsoft.html}{ByteDance's
negotiations to sell the app to Microsoft} as a way to address the
security concerns. On Sunday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/business/economy/trump-tiktok-china-national-security.html}{Microsoft
said that it had resumed talks} after consulting with the president,
giving some hope to users that the app would survive.

Young users say TikTok is a crucial outlet for education about climate
change, systemic racism and the Black Lives Matter movement. The talk of
a ban only politicized them further, with many TikTokers believing Mr.
Trump's threats were a direct response to their campaigns against him.

``TikTok is to Black Lives Matter what Twitter was to the Arab Spring,''
said Kareem Rahma, 34, a TikTok creator with nearly 400,000 followers on
the app. Mr. Rahma's TikToks from the Black Lives Matter protests in
Minneapolis garnered tens of millions of views. ``I saw a lot of youth
on the ground TikToking the protests as opposed to livestreaming,
tweeting or Instagramming,'' he said. ``The conversations these kids are
having with each other are essential.''

In June, teenage TikTok users
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/21/style/tiktok-trump-rally-tulsa.html}{claimed
responsibility for inflating attendance expectations}, leading to rows
upon rows of empty seats, for Mr. Trump's rally in Tulsa, Okla., after
thousands of them registered for tickets to the event that they had no
plans to redeem.

TikTok users have also waged coordinated campaigns to rate Mr. Trump's
businesses poorly on Google, to spam online surveys aimed at Trump
supporters with useless information and to damage the Trump campaign's
e-commerce store by collecting in their shopping baskets items they
never intend to buy.

Ellie Zeiler, 16, who has 6.3 million followers on TikTok, said that Mr.
Trump's threat to ban the app may even sway more
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-s-threatened-tiktok-ban-could-motivate-young-users-vote-n1235587}{young
people to vote against him}. ``I think that a lot of people didn't like
Trump before, and this has driven people to not like him even more,''
she said.

``For many kids, politics feel very distant,'' said Eitan Bernath, 18,
who has 1.2 million followers on TikTok. ``This might be the first time
it hits home for a lot of kids.''

On Sunday, nine TikTok creators with a collective 54 million followers,
including Brittany Broski, Hope Schwing and Mitchell Crawford, published
an open letter addressed to Mr. Trump on
\href{https://medium.com/@whoismax/dear-president-trump-an-open-letter-from-the-tiktok-creator-community-e56b21c682fb}{Medium}.

``TikTok has enabled the kinds of interactions that could never take
place on the likes of Facebook and Instagram,'' they
\href{https://medium.com/@whoismax/dear-president-trump-an-open-letter-from-the-tiktok-creator-community-e56b21c682fb}{wrote}.
``Our generation has grown up on the internet, but our vision of the
internet is going to require more than two gatekeepers. Why not use this
as an opportunity to level the playing field?'' they urged.

Vanessa Pappas, the general manager of TikTok North America, attempted
to quell concerns on Saturday. ``We're not planning on going anywhere,''
she said in a
\href{https://twitter.com/TaylorLorenz/status/1289579919358545920}{statement
released on the app}.

\hypertarget{disrupting-the-new-entertainment-business}{%
\subsection{Disrupting the new entertainment
business}\label{disrupting-the-new-entertainment-business}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/02/fashion/02TIKTOK-BAN-2/02TIKTOK-BAN-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The TikTok creator Curtis Newbill, 24, is one of thousands of young
creators who has found fame through the app.

When he walked into a friend's house in Los Angeles on Friday night, his
stomach sank. He was there for a gathering with fellow TikTok stars
known as the Sway Boys. ``They were like, `Did you hear about TikTok?
It's getting banned,''' Mr. Newbill said.

Mr. Newbill's next few hours were a blur. He remained at the gathering
and tried not to think about the situation, but a pit in his stomach
grew throughout the night. He went live on the app, telling his
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@curtisnewbill}{4.3 million followers} to
follow him on Instagram.

All night, Mr. Newbill fielded a barrage of texts from concerned family
and friends. He stayed up until 6:30 a.m., waiting for any information
about his future.

Like thousands of other entertainers who have made the pilgrimage to Los
Angeles in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/03/style/hype-house-los-angeles-tik-tok.html}{most
recent West Coast entertainment gold rush}, Mr. Newbill relies solely on
income from TikTok to make a living. ``I live song deal to song deal,''
he said.

The loss of TikTok would upend large swaths of the entertainment
industry that have just been completely reoriented around the app.

TikTok has rewritten the pop charts, becoming a new default for how
labels and aspiring artists promote their songs. And TikTok is where
major brands like American Eagle, Chipotle and others spend millions to
reach the next generation of consumers.

``I've lost brand deals in the past week,'' Ms. Zeiler said. ``They're
saying, `We don't want to do this anymore.' They're worried if TikTok
gets taken down, they're not going to get their full potential on the
deal.''

Management teams worked all night on Friday to back up their clients'
videos using \href{https://www.fyp.rip/}{FYP. RIP,} a tool that
downloads users' TikTok videos and emails them copies. Several managers
held conference calls with skittish brands that were seeking to cancel
deals. ``We're preparing for the worst,'' said Mario Ayuso, an
influencer manager.

``A lot of the newer talent I work with began their career on TikTok and
it has been the foundation for everything they know today,'' said Keith
Dorsey, another talent manager. ``They are concerned, worried and
somewhat freaked out. One of them actually planned on quitting his job
tomorrow to take his TikTok career to the next level. Our group chats
are on fire right now.''

\hypertarget{emerging-platforms-and-competitors-see-a-moment}{%
\subsection{Emerging platforms and competitors see a
moment}\label{emerging-platforms-and-competitors-see-a-moment}}

If the app's potential shutdown or instability around a sudden sale has
any silver lining, it's a flood of new users to smaller platforms.
\href{https://create.clashapp.co/appstore}{Clash}, a new short-form
video app founded by Brendon McNerney, a former Vine star, became
available on Friday night after the news and shot up the app store
rankings on Saturday. Byte and Dubsmash, two other short form video
apps, have also begun actively recruiting TikTok stars.

Last Wednesday, Triller, an app that functions similarly to TikTok,
announced it had
\href{https://www.businessinsider.com/triller-names-tiktok-star-josh-richards-strategy-head-seeks-funding-2020-7}{hired
the 18-year-old TikTok star Josh Richards} as the platform's chief
strategy officer, and successfully wooed Mr. Richards along with two
other large TikTok stars, Griffin Johnson, 21, and Noah Beck, 19, to
join the platform as investors.

Instagram is also offering TikTok creators deals of hundreds of
thousands of dollars to create content on Reels, its new product with
similarities, according to
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/facebook-seeks-to-reel-in-tiktok-creators-raising-stakes-in-social-media-rivalry-11595928600?mod=hp_lead_pos3}{The
Wall Street Journal}.

Perez Hilton, a longtime celebrity news chronicler who has
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@perezhilton}{amassed 850,000 followers on
TikTok}, said he hoped that just the threat of a ban would serve as a
note of caution for the young talent on the app. ``These influencers on
TikTok can't have all their eggs in one basket,'' he said. ``You have to
be everywhere,'' he said, if you want to stay famous.

``You need to hustle,'' he said. ``A lot of the TikTokers that are just
pretty, those are the ones that are really going to struggle. Pretty
doesn't age well and it doesn't translate. The ones that are willing to
work on and off TikTok and other platforms, they're the ones that will
be able to continue to thrive.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
