Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}A Partisan War Awaits Trump.
That Just Might Suit Him.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2yXIG7c}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{a-partisan-war-awaits-trump-that-just-might-suit-him}{%
\section{A Partisan War Awaits Trump. That Just Might Suit
Him.}\label{a-partisan-war-awaits-trump-that-just-might-suit-him}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07dc-trump1/07dc-trump1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 7, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2018/11/07/elecciones-2018-trump-democratas}{Leer
en
español}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20181108/trump-house-midterm-election/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20181108/trump-house-midterm-election/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump will wake up on Wednesday morning to a
radically new political environment as he confronts the prospect of a
two-year partisan war with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/midterm-elections-results.html}{a
Democratic-run House} armed with subpoena power and empowered to block
his legislative agenda.

Combative by nature, happier in a fight, the president may now have to
choose between escalating the pitched conflict that has torn Washington
apart in recent years and attempting the sort of reach-across-the-aisle
conciliation that has rarely marked his presidency so far.

After waging a divisive and racially charged campaign, Mr. Trump
signaled in the days leading up to Tuesday's vote that he may soften his
tone going forward, although past nods toward bipartisanship have never
lasted long. With his party no longer holding all the levers of power in
Washington, he cannot bypass the opposition if he hopes to transform his
priorities into law.

\emph{{[}Mr. Trump}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/07/us/politics/trump-midterms-house-senate.html}{\emph{claimed
a ``Big Victory''}} \emph{on Wednesday morning.{]}}

Perhaps just as important, he will no longer have Republican majorities
to guard his flank against
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/03/us/politics/democrats-trump-impeachment.html}{investigations
into all manner of issues} that Democrats are eager to examine. The new
House may press far more deeply into his personal and political affairs,
demanding the tax returns he has kept secret, delving deeper into any
ties with Russia and exploring any conflicts of interest.

\emph{{[}See the results for}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-governor-elections.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{governors'
races}, the}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-house-elections.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{House
of Representatives}} \emph{and the}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-senate-elections.html}{Senate}.{]}}

At its most extreme, a Democratic House could even potentially pose an
impeachment threat against the president depending on the results of the
investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who has
remained quiet during the campaign, although party leaders are wary of
such a move.

``The administration will be under higher scrutiny and accountability by
a Democratic House,'' said former Representative Tom Davis, Republican
of Virginia. ``Look for more investigations and subpoenas. The honeymoon
is over. Voters voted to put a check on the president rather than giving
him a blank check.''

Mr. Trump became the fourth president in a row to endure a major midterm
setback. Bill Clinton's Democrats
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1994/11/12/us/1994-election-white-house-memo-defeat-clinton-aides-find-their-silver-lining.html}{lost
both houses of Congress in 1994}, George W. Bush's Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/10/us/politics/10elect.html}{lost
both houses in 2006}, and Barack Obama's Democrats
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/03/us/politics/03elect.html}{lost
the House in 2010} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/05/us/politics/midterm-elections.html}{the
Senate in 2014}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07dc-trump3/merlin_146160351_b4bda8e9-612b-4f02-b699-5a5a3e88ef47-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But Mr. Clinton and Mr. Obama both bounced back from their first-term
defeats to win re-election two years later, finding it useful
politically to have an opposition to play off. In his time in politics,
Mr. Trump has been at his most comfortable and confident when he has an
enemy to joust with.

``The subpoena process and investigations will be difficult,'' said Marc
Short, a former White House legislative director for Mr. Trump. ``But
there's probably nothing that could help the president's re-election
prospects better than having Nancy Pelosi as speaker.''

\emph{{[}Make sense of the country's political landscape}
\emph{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?smid=rd\%3Faction\%3Dclick\&module=inline\&pgtype=Article}{with
our newsletter}.{]}}

Former Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York, said the
election results were a ``mixed bag'' for the president. ``With a House
Democratic majority, he has the foil he needs for his re-election
campaign in 2020,'' Mr. Israel said. ``But no president wants the other
party with subpoena power --- certainly not this president.''

On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump characterized the midterm elections as
a referendum on his presidency, telling supporters that they needed to
vote for Republicans to continue his policies and guard him against
impeachment. He made clear that he would cast a victory as a personal
vindication while pre-emptively insisting that if Republicans lost, it
would not be a repudiation of him.

In the days leading up to the elections, Mr. Trump emphasized that
history was against him because most presidents see their party lose
seats in midterm elections, in effect trying to inoculate himself
against any backlash that might come with a defeat. He had a point. In
the
\href{https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/vitalstats_ch2_tbl4.pdf}{39
midterm elections since 1862}, the president's party lost House seats 35
times and seats in the Senate 24 times.

Moreover, Mr. Trump was spared the worst outcome as Republicans held
onto the Senate, ensuring his ability
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/11/us/politics/trump-judiciary-appeals-courts-conservatives.html}{to
continue confirming judges} and other appointees. The Senate will most
likely block any unfriendly legislation that House Democrats might
advance, avoiding the need for the president to use his veto power.

But Republican setbacks in governor's races in key states could
complicate Mr. Trump's re-election campaign in two years. Democrats
captured the governor's mansions in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/laura-kelly-wins-kansas-governors-race.html}{states
like Kansas} and Michigan that Mr. Trump won two years ago, and their
control over governments in those places could make it harder for the
president to repeat his feat in 2020.

Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former Democratic congressman and White
House chief of staff, said the Democrats' success in taking the House
and the governor's races represents a repudiation of a president at a
time when unemployment is at 3.7 percent, a nearly half-century low.

Image

The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, outside the
White House on election night. Mr. Trump became the third president in a
row to endure a major midterm setback.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York
Times

``The Democrats have no business picking up the House and the
governorships, no business,'' Mr. Emanuel said. ``The fact is this was a
blue wave with a red undertow.'' The Democrats, he added, were building
a ``metropolitan majority,'' a coalition of urban and suburban voters
that he said would make it harder for the president to win a second
term.

How the president will recalibrate, if at all, may become clearer in the
days and weeks to come as he reshuffles his staff and cabinet and
decides whether to force a showdown with the departing Republican
Congress over money for his long-promised wall along the southern
border, funds he seems unlikely to win once the Democrats formally take
the reins in the House in January.

Moreover, the investigation into Russia's interference in the 2016
election, which took a public pause during the fall campaign, may soon
come to a climax, tempting the president to shut it down or fire Mr.
Mueller
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/10/us/politics/trump-sought-to-fire-mueller-in-december.html}{as
he has contemplated}. Any such move would inflame the capital and
potentially provoke House Democrats to use their new power to take
action.

Mr. Trump, however, is a more flexible political figure than many,
capable of shifting his position on a dime without worrying about
looking consistent, and as a result, he could in theory decide to work
with Democrats even at the risk of angering fellow Republicans. The same
president who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/09/world/asia/trump-kim-jong-un.html}{went
from threatening nuclear war} against North Korea's leader to declaring
that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/100000006136380/trump-kim-jong-un-we-fell-in-love.html}{the
two had fallen in love} could conceivably reposition himself into a
negotiator with Democrats.

``Democrats winning the House provides a silver lining for the president
in that he could craft bipartisan solutions for prescription drug costs
and infrastructure,'' said Sara Fagen, a former White House political
director under Mr. Bush. ``But it also means members of his
administration will spend many, many hours dealing with investigations,
including answering questions under subpoena.''

Mr. Trump also retains the power to set foreign policy as other
presidents did during times of clashes with Congress and indeed, he
leaves on Friday for a weekend in Paris, where he will join other world
leaders in marking the 100th anniversary of the end of World War I.

Mr. Israel said confrontation was not necessarily a foregone conclusion,
depending on how the president chooses to respond.

``I do think there's a hidden opportunity here,'' he said. ``House and
Senate Democrats can present Trump with legislation on infrastructure
investments and lowering prescription drug costs, two issues he
campaigned on.''

``If he take the deals,'' he added, ``he marginalizes Senate Republicans
when they're defending 20 seats in the next election. If he doesn't take
the deals, he's got nothing to run on. Either way, Democrats are in the
driver's seat.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
