Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Trump's Nakedly Political
Pandemic Pivot

\href{https://nyti.ms/2WYd3qd}{https://nyti.ms/2WYd3qd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-nakedly-political-pandemic-pivot}{%
\section{Trump's Nakedly Political Pandemic
Pivot}\label{trumps-nakedly-political-pandemic-pivot}}

This is how the president operates when he is desperate and in trouble.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/charles-m-blow}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/charles-m-blow/charles-m-blow-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/charles-m-blow}{Charles M. Blow}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/opinion/26Blow/merlin_174883986_71493852-f856-42d1-99aa-41a5db25451e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

After mocking people for wearing masks, refusing to publicly wear one
himself and holding rallies and gatherings where social distancing was
not required, President Trump has shifted his tone.

He has canceled his convention activities in Jacksonville, Fla., after
moving the events from North Carolina when that state's governor raised
public health concerns about such a large indoor gathering.

He has resumed briefings, ostensibly about the coronavirus, after
canceling them and trying to move on to other matters, as if the virus
would simply vanish if he sufficiently ignored it.

Trump is in real trouble. With the election passing the 100-day-away
milestone, he is down in the polls, people don't trust or approve of his
handling of the pandemic and he faces a real uphill battle to
re-election.

Apparently, the reality of his dire straits has begun to pierce his
inner circle of perpetual affirmation. There is a reality lurking that
can't be lied away. If the election were held today, he wouldn't win.

But Trump is a political chameleon: He can alter himself to suit his
environment, to reflect it. He may not be fond of apologies, but he is
open to course reversal, for survival.

Indeed, that is the maleficent marvel of it all: He has changed his
position to the opposite of what it once was and argued that the new
direction is the one he's always embraced. Only a person with an utter
contempt for the truth could repeatedly take this tack.

We need look no further than 2016 to see how Trump operates when he is
desperate and in trouble, trying to woo the votes he needs, and how
hollow and nakedly political his efforts can be.

In 2016, after calling Mexican immigrants drug dealers and rapists and
promising to build a wall between the United States and Mexico --- one
that he would somehow force the Mexican government to finance ---~he
posed with taco bowls on Cinco De Mayo and wrote on Twitter:
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2016/05/05/politics/donald-trump-taco-bowl-cinco-de-mayo/index.html}{``I
love Hispanics!''}

He got \href{https://www.cnn.com/election/2016/results/exit-polls}{over
a quarter} of the Hispanic vote, yet once elected, he continued to
demonize immigrants and
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-says-he-will-sign-order-to-provide-road-to-citizenship-for-dreamers}{tried
to dismantle} the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program for
young immigrants known as ``Dreamers.''

His administration's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/12/us/fema-puerto-rico-maria.html}{negligence
and lack of preparedness} in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria
undoubtedly led to more deaths than there would have been under a
competent president.

And the Trump administration's
\href{https://www.splcenter.org/news/2020/06/17/family-separation-under-trump-administration-timeline}{``zero
tolerance''} policy, under which thousands of migrant children,
sometimes infants, were taken from their parents, flourished.

In 2016, when the ``Access Hollywood'' tape on which Trump is heard
bragging about sexually assaulting women was made public, he issued a
rare half-apology, saying, ``I've said and done things I regret, and the
words released today on this more than a decade-old video are one of
them.'' He would later deem his assault claims ``locker room talk.''

But shortly after winning the election he started suggesting that the
voice on the tape wasn't his, and after his inauguration,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/28/us/politics/trump-access-hollywood-tape.html}{according
to} The New York Times, he told a Republican senator that ``he wanted to
investigate the recording that had him boasting about grabbing women's
genitals.''

In 2016, Trump
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjHPDzUOe2U}{finally admitted}
that Barack Obama was born in the United States. It is important to note
that he didn't in fact apologize for years of racist birtherism during
which he insisted otherwise. Instead, he once again attempted to shift
blame, saying: ``Hillary Clinton and her campaign of 2008 started the
birther controversy. I finished it. I finished it. You know what I
mean.''

But after Trump was elected he revived his questioning of Obama's place
of birth and the authenticity of his birth certificate.

Trump is an incendiary figure. He uses fear and division as his devices.
He believes they work \ldots{} until they don't. When forced --- by
shifts in sentiment by his core supporters, or those on the margins he
needs, or in the face of possible loss and defeat --- he will say and do
whatever it takes to get back in the good.

But none of the change is ever real. This man doesn't evolve. He doesn't
grow. He doesn't grow up.

He is stuck and stunted. He is a creature of instinct and that instinct
is base and animalistic, survival-centered, without core conviction of a
prevailing character.

The way Trump handled --- and failed to handle ---~ the pandemic in its
early months no doubt led to the deaths of people who should not have
died. He was thinking of himself, his political prospects, and nothing
else.

American lives were collateral damage.

Now, his calculus has finally shifted: It's hurting him more to ignore
the virus than to engage it. So he has done a 180 and now wants to
pretend to be in charge, mature and not completely dismissive of the
science that could save us.

But even now, this is not about the American people but about politics.
Should he prevail in November, the true Trump will no doubt re-emerge.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}} \emph{and}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter
(@NYTopinion)}}\emph{, and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
