Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/energy-environment}{Energy
\& Environment}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/energy-environment}{Energy \&
Environment}\textbar{}Delta Air Lines Bought an Oil Refinery. It Didn't
Go as Planned.

\url{https://nyti.ms/33LF9c8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e360-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e361-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e362-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e363-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e364-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1354e365-e384-11ea-99fe-1fe62c0779f3}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{delta-air-lines-bought-an-oil-refinery-it-didnt-go-as-planned}{%
\section{Delta Air Lines Bought an Oil Refinery. It Didn't Go as
Planned.}\label{delta-air-lines-bought-an-oil-refinery-it-didnt-go-as-planned}}

Delta's foray into oil refining illustrates some of the reasons the
business was in trouble even before the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/11/business/11jetfuel1/merlin_175398372_7951fffe-3b54-4ed0-96e5-a80ad11ef470-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/clifford-krauss}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-clifford-krauss/author-clifford-krauss-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/niraj-chokshi}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-niraj-chokshi/author-niraj-chokshi-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/clifford-krauss}{Clifford
Krauss} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj
Chokshi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Jet fuel is known as the Steady Eddie of the refinery business, a
predictable profit maker that balances the seasonal gyrations of
gasoline and diesel sales. But for airlines, it is a headache --- a big
and unpredictable expense that confounds managers.

So Delta Air Lines tried
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/04/05/business/deltas-puzzling-interest-in-buying-an-oil-refinery.html}{a
bold experiment}: It bought an oil refinery in 2012 outside
Philadelphia, the first such purchase by a major U.S. airline. When jet
fuel prices were high, as they were then, Delta figured the refinery,
which turns crude oil into the stuff that planes, cars and trucks burn,
could offset some of its expenses and perhaps even make money.

``A lot of energy guys hate it, and I can understand why, because we're
taking money out of their pockets,'' Ed Bastian, the airline's current
chief executive and then president, said at an industry conference in
2012.

But the refinery made only modest profits some years and lost money in
others. This year, as the coronavirus hammered demand for air travel, it
has become a liability for Delta, widely considered by analysts as one
of the best-run airlines in the country.

The energy industry critics Mr. Bastian dismissed appear to have
correctly identified the flaws in Delta's strategy. Like airlines, oil
refining is a cyclical enterprise that can be difficult in the best of
times --- refineries are expensive to run, prone to accidents and
subject to environmental regulations, yet earn meager profits.

Today, airlines and refineries face their biggest crises in modern
times. Tens of millions of people are working from home, and the number
of people flying is down about 75 percent from a year ago. Delta's
refinery, Monroe Energy, has been one of many casualties in an industry
that is working well below capacity, idling plants and losing money.

Monroe, in Trainer, Pa., lost \$114 million in the second quarter, and
its future appears bleak. In 2018, Delta announced that it was
interested in finding a partner to jointly own and operate it, but it
never found any takers.

``The refinery may not even be a live albatross,'' said Tom Kloza,
global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service. ``We
don't see jet fuel becoming a marquee moneymaker for refiners again
until the middle of the decade, if then.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/10/business/10jetfuel4/10jetfuel4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The coronavirus cut off demand for all transportation fuels in April as
the economy shut down. Consumption of gasoline and diesel has recovered
somewhat, but American refiners have still had to cut their fuel
production by roughly 15 percent in recent weeks compared with last
year.

Jet fuel has experienced the steepest downturn by far, forcing
refineries to slash output by nearly half, to an average of 1.1 million
barrels a day for the four weeks that ended July 24 from 1.9 million a
year earlier, according to the Energy Department.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-producer-of-unhinged-makes-a-big-bet-on-audiences-returning-to-theaters}{The
producer of `Unhinged' makes a big bet on audiences returning to
theaters.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{18h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#american-airlines-to-stop-flights-to-15-cities-after-government-aid-ends}{American
Airlines to stop flights to 15 cities after government aid ends.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{19h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#without-school-plays-and-assemblies-a-technicians-livelihood-withers}{Without
school plays and assemblies, a technician's livelihood withers.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Air travel recovered a little in May and June, but stalled in July as
infections surged across the country and states imposed new quarantine
restrictions on visitors. International travel remains very limited. And
until a vaccine is widely available, the industry recovery will be
choppy at best.

Refinery executives have many long-term worries, like stricter fuel
economy standards and the growth of electric vehicles. But the pandemic
is their most immediate concern.

``It's certainly not easy to see what's coming,'' said Karl Schmidt,
vice president of supply and marketing for Citgo, which has three
refineries in Texas, Louisiana and Illinois. ``It will be interesting to
see how long it takes for people to regain comfort about getting on a
plane if and when we have a vaccine.''

Marathon Petroleum, the nation's biggest independent refiner, announced
last month that it would shut down two refineries in California and New
Mexico. Royal Dutch Shell is trying to sell at least four refineries.
And at least three more refineries in Alaska, California and Texas are
at serious risk, according to industry consultants. HollyFrontier, a
Dallas-based company, plans to lay off 200 workers from an oil refinery
in Cheyenne, Wyo., as it converts the plant to biodiesel production.

BP announced last week its intention to pare back refining by a third as
it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/business/energy-environment/bp-renewable-investment.html}{shifts
to renewables and other clean energy}.

``Refineries are struggling right now because demand has collapsed and
that has led to severe overcapacity,'' said Rick Joswick, head of oil
pricing, refining and trade flow analytics at S\&P Global Platts.

While it is a relatively small percentage of total output, jet fuel is
crucial for most refineries. While gasoline is profitable during the
summer driving season and diesel is profitable in the fall and winter,
jet fuel is a high-margin product year round. When jet fuel production
is down, refineries earn a lot less and operate inefficiently.

Image

A Delta executive recently said its plans for the refinery had not
changed ``right now.''Credit...Dustin Sonneborn for The New York Times

``It will be multiple years before jet fuel demand gets back to 2019
levels, probably five years,'' said Kurt Barrow, a vice president at IHS
Markits, an energy consulting firm. ``It's a serious issue among other
serious issues.''

Even before the virus spread, refinery profit margins were suffering.

U.S. refineries made good money in recent years exporting gasoline,
diesel and jet fuel. But that trend may be coming to an end because
Chinese, Indian, Nigerian and Saudi Arabian energy companies are ramping
up exports.

In addition, demand for imported fuel in Latin America, a big market for
many U.S. refiners, is declining sharply because of the pandemic.

The situation is particularly dire for East Coast refineries, like
Monroe, which tend to be less efficient than refiners along the Gulf of
Mexico because they can process only certain grades of crude oil.

Such issues apparently did not factor into Delta's thinking when the
airline
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/05/01/business/delta-air-lines-to-buy-refinery.html}{paid
\$150 million} for the struggling Trainer refinery, which
\href{http://www.conocophillips.com/news-media/story/conocophillips-seeks-buyer-for-trainer-pa-refinery/}{ConocoPhillips
had idled} six months earlier, citing pressure from imports, weak demand
and regulatory costs. The refinery, which
\href{https://www.monroe-energy.com/the-facilities/history-today/}{started
in 1912 as a wooden structure}, has been rebuilt, shut down, restarted
and expanded by a series of owners, including Sinclair, BP and Phillips
Petroleum.

When Delta took over, global air travel was growing, refiners were
exporting to Africa and Latin America, and a shale drilling boom was
suddenly producing cheap domestic oil for refiners to process.

For roughly the list price of a wide-body aircraft at the time, Richard
Anderson, then Delta's chief executive officer, asserted that the
refinery would reduce the company's fuel expenses by \$300 million
annually, allowing it to more than recoup its investment in just a year.
That math suggested other airlines would be foolish not to make similar
purchases.

``Everybody was kind of content to watch what Delta did with it, and if
it made a whole lot of sense you might have seen others replicate it,
but in this case that's not what happened,'' said Helane Becker, a
managing director and senior airline analyst at Cowen, an investment
bank.

While the refinery had some decent years, it never yielded the amount of
jet fuel that the airline had originally hoped for relative to other
fuels. Nevertheless, Delta has argued that the facility helps to blunt
the effect of the volatile energy market and lowers jet fuel prices
across the board by boosting supplies.

The refinery relied largely on crude shipped by rail from the Bakken
Formation in North Dakota. But in late 2015, Congress lifted a
decades-long ban on oil exports. That change encouraged companies to
build pipelines that took Bakken crude more cheaply south for export or
refining on the Gulf Coast.

Executives at Delta and its refinery declined requests for comment.

In a recent conference call, Paul Jacobson, the airline's chief
financial officer, said that the plant was operating ``at break-even
levels'' after a steep April loss. Asked whether the airline wanted to
sell all or part of the refinery, he said nothing was out of the
question.

``As with everything in the business, we're looking at everything,'' he
said. ``But our plans have not changed with respect to the refinery
right now.''

As Delta's demand for jet fuel has dropped, Monroe has switched to
producing more diesel. But diesel inventories are growing in the
Northeast, potentially limiting sales.

``It's a refinery that could shut down if nobody wants to buy it,'' said
John Auers, executive vice president of Turner Mason \& Company, an
energy consulting firm. ``I don't think Delta is interested in running
it longer term. It didn't play out as they thought it would.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
