Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Georgia, Tennessee and South Carolina
Say Businesses Can Reopen Soon

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VrYQl3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{georgia-tennessee-and-south-carolina-say-businesses-can-reopen-soon}{%
\section{Georgia, Tennessee and South Carolina Say Businesses Can Reopen
Soon}\label{georgia-tennessee-and-south-carolina-say-businesses-can-reopen-soon}}

Even as some states move to restart their economies, coronavirus hot
spots are emerging, including at a state prison in Ohio.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/20/us/20VIRUS-USCASES-kemp/merlin_171654039_dec34257-cb98-402e-a79f-84a8c5d01616-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rick-rojas}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-rick-rojas/author-rick-rojas-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-michael-cooper/author-michael-cooper-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/rick-rojas}{Rick Rojas}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ATLANTA --- Residents of Georgia will be allowed on Friday to return to
the gym and get haircuts, pedicures, massages and tattoos. Next Monday,
they can dine again in restaurants and go to the movies.

With that announcement, Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia on Monday joined
officials in other states who are moving ahead with plans to relax
restrictions intended to curb the spread of the coronavirus, despite
signs that the outbreak is just beginning to strike some parts of the
country.

In Tennessee, Gov. Bill Lee said on Monday that he was not extending his
``safer-at-home'' order that is set to expire on April 30. According to
his office, ``the vast majority of businesses in 89 counties'' will be
allowed to reopen on May 1. Businesses in Ohio are expected to reopen on
that date as well.

``We're going to do what we think is right --- what I think is right ---
and that is try to open this economy,'' Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio said
Sunday on NBC's ``Meet the Press,'' ``but do it very, very carefully so
we don't get a lot of people killed.''

In South Carolina, Gov. Henry McMaster, a Republican, said on Monday
that department stores and some other retail businesses that had
previously been deemed nonessential would be allowed to reopen on
Tuesday, but they must abide by social distancing guidelines. People
will also be able to gain access to public beaches on Tuesday.

Across the country, governors have been weighing steps toward lifting
orders and reviving their stalled economies. A lack of sufficient
widespread testing has been seen as one of the main obstacles.

At the White House's coronavirus briefing on Monday, President Trump
reacted dismissively to governors who said they had scrambled to access
testing materials, such as nasal swabs and chemical reagents.

``Some states have far more capacity than they actually understand,'' he
said. ``That is a complex subject, but some of the governors did not
understand it.''

Mr. Trump specifically mentioned Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois, a
Democrat, and Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a Republican. He also framed
the debates around testing in political terms, saying that Democrats
wanted maximum testing ``because they want to be able to criticize.''

Mr. Kemp, in his news conference on Monday, said that he had been
frustrated by the issue of testing capacity, but that he also believed
that the crisis had leveled off enough to ease restrictions and help
alleviate the economic anguish they have helped create. Georgia has had
more than 19,000 confirmed cases of the coronavirus, with 775 deaths,
according to state public health officials.

He said that stores were not reopening for ``business as usual,'' noting
that social distancing rules still must be enforced, and that businesses
should check employees' temperatures for fevers and ramp up sanitation
efforts.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T21:57:55.984Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2daa96b5}{As
  talks drag on, McConnell signals openness to jobless aid extension
  that Republicans have opposed.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1228a480}{Novavax
  sees encouraging results from two studies of its experimental
  vaccine.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The move to reopen, he said, was ``a small step forward and should be
treated as such.''

Mr. Kemp and Mr. Lee, both Republicans, were among the governors who
were criticized for being slow to impose statewide closure orders. Both
had expressed concerns about an invasion of civil liberties and the
economic strain that closing down large parts of the economy would
create.

Parts of the Outer Banks of North Carolina, a string of barrier islands
whose beaches are popular with tourists, are also moving forward with
lifting restrictions for entry, officials said.

Emergency officials from Dare County, N.C., which includes the towns of
Nags Head, Kitty Hawk and Southern Shores, said in a statement on Monday
that the decision was based on ``careful consideration of the science,
trends, data and resource availability.'' The county has had 15
diagnosed cases, with one death, officials said.

In Ohio, even as plans were being put in place to reopen, a state prison
about an hour's drive north of the capital became the largest-known
source of coronavirus infections in the United States, continuing a
trend of fast-moving outbreaks in crowded, confined spaces.

Officials said that at least 1,828 inmates --- almost three-quarters of
the population --- had tested positive for the coronavirus at the
minimum- and medium-security prison in Marion, Ohio. That is more than
the number of known cases from a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/us/coronavirus-south-dakota-meat-plant-refugees.html}{meatpacking
plant in South Dakota} and a Navy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/us/politics/coronavirus-navy-secretary-roosevelt-crozier.html}{aircraft
carrier docked in Guam}.

``Once Covid-19 gets inside the gate, inside the door, it spreads, and
it spreads very significantly,'' Mr. DeWine, a Republican, said at a
news conference on Monday.

Although there have been encouraging signs that the outbreak is
beginning to level off in some parts of the country, the threat is
continuing to grow in other states and regions.

Even in areas where the number of new cases is beginning to flatten,
they remain high: New York, which on Monday reported its fewest positive
tests in a month and its lowest one-day death toll in more than two
weeks, still had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/20/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-update.html?type=styln-live-updates\&label=new\%20york\&index=2\&action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{4,726
new cases and 478 new deaths}. And the country has added more than
25,000 new cases a day for the past week.

In some parts of the country, there are signs that things are getting
worse, not better.

In Massachusetts, which has been particularly hard hit in recent days,
officials reported 1,705 new cases on Sunday, bringing the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{state's
total to 38,077}. Officials also reported 146 new deaths, which brought
the death toll to 1,706.

``We're right in the middle of the surge now,'' Gov. Charlie Baker, a
Republican, said Sunday on CBS's ``Face the Nation.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/20/us/20VIRUS-USCASES-mass/merlin_171695355_af6e805b-6b7f-4ebd-9361-0badeb1333e4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Los Angeles County reported 81 deaths on Saturday, its highest one-day
death toll.

``In this last week, we have doubled the number of deaths that occurred
among L.A. County residents,'' Barbara Ferrer, the county's director of
public health,
\href{http://publichealth.lacounty.gov/phcommon/public/media/mediapubhpdetail.cfm?prid=2325}{said
in a statement} on Saturday. Fewer deaths were reported Sunday --- 24
--- but county officials noted that
\href{http://publichealth.lacounty.gov/phcommon/public/media/mediapubhpdetail.cfm?prid=2326}{nearly
1,000 new cases} had been identified in the previous 48 hours.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Significant workplace-based clusters of known infections have been
reported in Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota,
Tennessee and other states, suggesting that the pandemic is just
beginning to sink into some communities.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/19/nyregion/coronavirus-nj-andover-nursing-home-deaths.html}{Nursing
homes} and prisons also continue to be hot spots.

About one out of five confirmed cases in Ohio is now connected to the
state's prison system, according to statewide numbers. The Department of
Rehabilitation and Correction said that as of Sunday, at least 2,400
inmates in the system had tested positive, and seven had died of either
confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infections.

No deaths have been reported among the inmates at the prison in Marion,
but one staff member there has died, and 103 employees have tested
positive. The prison
\href{https://www.drc.ohio.gov/Family/COVID-19-UPDATES}{announced its
first positive case}, of an employee, on March 29.

Pickaway Correctional Institution, southwest of Columbus, also had a
large number of confirmed cases, with 384 inmates and 64 employees
testing positive as of Sunday.

Despite warnings from health officials and attempts to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/us/coronavirus-prisons-jails.html}{release
some inmates} to prevent outbreaks, jails, prisons and detention centers
have emerged as major coronavirus spreaders. As of Monday, four of the
10 largest-known sources of infection in the United States were
correctional facilities,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to national data} collected by The New York Times.

More than half of the inmates at the Neuse Correctional Institution in
Goldsboro, N.C. --- 458 --- have tested positive for the virus,
\href{https://www.waynegov.com/946/Coronavirus-COVID-19}{county
officials said}. And there have been more than 600 cases involving
inmates and staff members at the Cook County Jail in Chicago, where
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/breaking/ct-4th-ccj-covid19-death-20200420-fwwoavnzrzfznnymlebyq2umwi-story.html}{four
inmates have died}.

At one point last week, Chicago's jail was the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/us/coronavirus-cook-county-jail-chicago.html}{top-known
source of U.S. infections}, but other sources have since surpassed it.

The overall numbers inside prisons are most likely a vast undercount
because some state and local agencies have not released information
about cases behind bars, and others, including the federal Bureau of
Prisons, are not testing everyone who falls ill. In contrast, Ohio said
it was testing aggressively inside prisons where the virus has been
confirmed, extending tests even to prisoners who were not showing
symptoms.

``The reason that you're seeing the numbers spike, of course, is because
we are massively testing now,'' Mr. DeWine said. Prisons, or any place
where people were living together in close quarters, he said, present
``a very difficult situation.''

Dr. Amy Acton, the director of the Ohio Department of Health, said that
despite the large number of positive cases detected in the prison
system, many of the infected inmates were not sick.

``What was fascinating about some of that data was the amount of
asymptomatic cases we are picking up,'' Dr. Acton said, adding that
neighboring states were getting similar results.

Rick Rojas reported from Atlanta and Michael Cooper from New York. Scott
Dodd, Sean Plambeck and Timothy Williams contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
