Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}As Virus Lingers in Michigan, a New
Crisis Arrives: Flooding

\url{https://nyti.ms/3cQxA5U}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/us/20michigan-floods01/20michigan-floods01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{as-virus-lingers-in-michigan-a-new-crisis-arrives-flooding}{%
\section{As Virus Lingers in Michigan, a New Crisis Arrives:
Flooding}\label{as-virus-lingers-in-michigan-a-new-crisis-arrives-flooding}}

Thousands of residents of Midland, Mich., fled their homes as waters
rose, trying to keep at a safe social distance even in shelters.

The Tittabawassee River flooded Midland, Mich., on Wednesday after two
area dams were breached.Credit...Emily Rose Bennett for The New York
Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By Kathleen Gray and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{Julie Bosman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MIDLAND, Mich. --- Along Main Street in the central Michigan city of
Midland, residents crowded the sidewalk on Wednesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/michigan-dams.html}{watching
the rising waters of the Tittabawassee River} in stunned despair.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/03/world/asia/china-floods-rain.html}{Floodwaters}
lapped less than a block away, and a row of businesses, their
electricity cut off, stood dark and quiet.

For many, including Jeff De Vaney, the owner of Amazing Deli, the sight
was pain on top of pain. Mr. De Vaney was hoping to fully reopen his
sandwich shop soon and begin to recoup the revenue he has lost during
the coronavirus crisis. He had just brought in portable coolers to store
all the extra stock he expected to need.

Then came the flood.

``We can't seem to catch a break,'' Mr. De Vaney said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/us/20michigan-floods02/merlin_172683219_32b790de-494e-4db7-bbc7-51a55f27c5df-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Michigan, one of the states
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{hardest
hit by the coronavirus pandemic}, was left reeling again on Wednesday
after days of torrential rainfall
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/us/michigan-dam-breach.html}{breached
two privately owned dams} the night before. Thousands of residents were
forced to flee their homes, and much of Midland,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/climate/michigan-dam-dow-chemical-superfund.html}{the
home of Dow Chemical and some of its plants}, was submerged in murky
floodwaters.

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat who has clashed with Republicans over
the state's response to the coronavirus, found herself in an ever more
complicated position: urging residents to flee their homes to avoid the
rising waters while maintaining social distancing to avoid the spreading
virus. Midland County has had 76 known cases, a relatively small number
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/30/us/coronavirus-detroit.html}{in
a battered state}.

``It's hard to believe that we're in the middle of a 100-year crisis, a
global pandemic, and we're also dealing with a flooding event that looks
to be the worst in 500 years,'' Ms. Whitmer said.

For years, federal regulators had warned that a dam in nearby Edenville
Township could rupture. They had chided its corporate owner, Boyce Hydro
Power, for failing to make required structural changes to the dam,
revoked the company's license and declared that Boyce Hydro had
displayed ``a pattern of delay and indifference to addressing dam safety
requirements.''

On Tuesday night, the dam gave way, sending a torrent of water gushing
into streets, houses and businesses, and threatening Dow Chemical, the
producer of plastics that sits along the Tittabawassee River. Ten miles
south of the Edenville dam, water was spilling over a second dam, a
structure feared to be on the verge of collapse on Wednesday.

By then, floodwaters had crept high enough that red stop signs were
barely peeking out in downtown Midland, a city of 42,000 residents about
130 miles northwest of Detroit. Evacuees, carrying suitcases and wearing
face masks, arrived at local schools that had been repurposed as
emergency shelters.

Officials said there were no known injuries or deaths tied to the
floods. One man who had driven his car into surging water was rescued.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T19:32:24.665Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4825b93}{Public
  and private schools in Maryland and elsewhere are divided over
  in-person instruction.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4d1eafa8}{N.Y.C.'s
  health commissioner resigns after clashing with the mayor over the
  virus.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Ms. Whitmer declared a state of emergency for Midland County and said
she would appeal for assistance from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. By Wednesday, 130 soldiers from the Michigan National Guard were
dispatched to help state police evacuate residents.

In balmy spring temperatures on Wednesday morning, a pair of jet skiers
roared down the swollen river, which was expected to rise nearly 10 feet
above its flood level.

The site of the city's farmers' market along the banks of the river was
swamped, while floodwaters were beginning to lap at the bottom of a
pedestrian bridge crossing the river.

``It's disastrous,'' said Sue Baranski, who had evacuated her home in
nearby Sanford as the floodwaters rose. ``Between the devastation from
the flooding and the virus and the small-business owners trying to make
their way through that, it's just too much.''

Image

A bridge was destroyed by floodwaters in Edenville Township near
Midland.Credit...Emily Rose Bennett for The New York Times

Dow Chemical said that floodwaters had reached containment ponds near
its plants, but that there was no environmental damage or threat to
residents.

``Dow's local emergency operations center is fully activated and is
implementing its flood preparedness plan,'' the company said in a
statement. ``All operating units on site have been safely shut down,
except for facilities needed for safely managing chemical containment,
and all railcars are secured.''

One of the largest chemical companies in the world, with \$43 billion of
revenue in 2019, Dow employs more than 4,000 people at its headquarters
and manufacturing sites in Midland.

The company's influence is apparent everywhere in town, which houses
Midland Center for the Arts, Dow Gardens and H.H. Dow High School. Dow
helped pay for a rebuilt downtown, transforming it into a wide
pedestrian thoroughfare filled with benches, Adirondack chairs, fire
pits and blooming trees.

Image

About 100 evacuees spent the night in the gym at Midland High
School.Credit...Emily Rose Bennett for The New York Times

A short drive from downtown, at least 140 people evacuated from the
flooding to Midland High School, a makeshift shelter. About 100 people
spent the night on Tuesday; another 40 opted to sleep in their cars
instead because of worries about the coronavirus.

Dot Costello, 101, had slept on a cot in the school after buses picked
up residents from her apartment building.

``I'm afraid to see what's happened to my city,'' she said. ``I do not
like 2020 right now.''

Another displaced Midland resident, Steve Blackhurst, 64, a retired
lawyer, woke up Wednesday morning to a flooded yard and water pouring
through his basement windows.

``They had to bring an airboat to come get me out,'' he said. ``You've
just got to get through it and make sure you stay alive. I'm going to
miss my Scotch before I go to bed tonight.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Brad Kaye, the Midland city manager, said that damage had been
extensive, with the first floor of the Grace A. Dow Memorial Library
swamped and four of the city's 42 sewage pumping stations underwater and
not functioning. All the while, public health concerns remained.

``We've still got Covid-19, and it didn't go away miraculously because
we had a flood,'' he said.

Image

Volunteers gathered donated supplies at the high school.Credit...Emily
Rose Bennett for The New York Times

Many in Midland expressed anger and frustration over the breaches of the
dams, where failures were expected to require a costly and extensive
cleanup.

According to a database kept by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the
two dams were rated in the highest risk category, along with about 300
other dams in the state. Both dams were last inspected in 2018.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission revoked the license of the
Edenville dam in 2018, citing the failure of Boyce Hydro to put in place
safety measures that would help prevent a flood. That year, a state
agency assumed regulatory authority of the dam.

According to federal documents, Boyce Hydro insisted there was little
chance that a catastrophic flood could happen.

``Boyce Hydro states that the probability of such a flood occurring in
the next 5 to 10 years ranges from 5 to 10 in one million,''
\href{https://ferc.gov/whats-new/comm-meet/2018/021518/H-3.pdf}{one
report said}.

Late Wednesday, Boyce Hydro issued a statement expressing distress over
what had transpired. It said the company's operators had made efforts to
lower water levels and prepare for the incoming rain, but that a
combination of rainfall and high winds reached extraordinary levels.

``We sympathize with those who have lost property and been forced to
relocate due to the resulting flooding in Gladwin and Midland
Counties,'' the statement said.

Nick Assendelft, a spokesman for the Michigan Department of Environment,
Great Lakes, and Energy, said that inspectors in October 2018 found that
the dam was in fair structural condition, but had concerns about its
spillway capacity.

A lack of investment and maintenance combined with excessive rainfall
were factors in its failure, he said in an email.

Kathleen Gray reported from Midland, and Julie Bosman from Chicago. Neal
E. Boudette contributed reporting from Ann Arbor, Mich., and Ivan Penn
from Burbank, Calif.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
