\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}It's Time to
Re-Re-Re-Meet the Muppets

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WJEMdW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/books/time-for-a-literary-road-trip.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Take:
  A Literary Road Trip}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/magazine/bored-with-your-home-cooking-some-smoky-eggplant-will-fix-that.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cook:
  Smoky Eggplant}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/travel/moose-michigan-isle-royale.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Look
  Out: For Moose}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/arts/26MUPPETSa/merlin_174639525_a9ae2a18-54f6-4e58-aab2-560ea57dad0d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{its-time-to-re-re-re-meet-the-muppets}{%
\section{It's Time to Re-Re-Re-Meet the
Muppets}\label{its-time-to-re-re-re-meet-the-muppets}}

``Muppets Now,'' a new series on Disney+, is the latest attempt to take
Kermit the Frog and his fuzzy companions back to their anarchic sketch
comedy roots.

Credit...Muppets Studio/Disney+

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/dave-itzkoff}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-dave-itzkoff/author-dave-itzkoff-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/dave-itzkoff}{Dave Itzkoff}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At the dawn of \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cE337D_V4vA}{``The
Muppet Show''} in the late 1970s, a visit to the Muppet Labs consisted
of watching its nebbishy proprietor, Dr. Bunsen Honeydew,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_j2pvi8FOQA\&t=5s}{demonstrate
misbegotten inventions} like an exploding hat or a self-destructing
necktie with a brief burst of pyrotechnics, a canned explosion sound and
a puff of smoke.

Today, a return visit to those labs on the Disney+ series
\href{https://disneyplusoriginals.disney.com/show/muppets-now}{``Muppets
Now''} features Honeydew and his agitated assistant, Beaker, using a
homemade device called the Infern-O-Matic to reduce everyday items --- a
carton of eggs, a wall clock, a guitar --- to smoldering piles of ashes.

If this scene from ``Muppets Now'' feels manic and combustible --- and
even a bit familiar --- that is by design: as Leigh Slaughter, vice
president of the Muppets Studio, explained recently, she and her
colleagues are hopeful that this series will conjure up ``that true
Muppet anarchy --- that complete chaos.''

She added: ``If they're going to take on real-world science, we thought,
we have to burn things. We have to drop things. We have to blow things
up.''

``Muppets Now,'' a six-episode series that debuts on July 31, is both
Disney's attempt to bring those familiar, fuzzy faces to its streaming
service and a parody of internet content. Its segments feature
characters like Miss Piggy and the Swedish Chef in rapid-fire comedy
sketches that lampoon popular online formats.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/arts/26MUPPETS1/merlin_174531441_33493819-9780-476e-874b-9065f312c5de-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The new series also strives to reconnect the Muppets with the disorderly
sensibility they embodied in the era of ``The Muppet Show'' and get back
to basics after other recent efforts to reboot the characters fizzled
out.

``The thinking is to stop trying so hard to be like everybody else and
just be the Muppets,'' said Bill Barretta, a veteran Muppet performer
and an executive producer of ``Muppets Now.'' ``Let's celebrate the fact
that they all have to deal with each other and just be silly and play
and entertain again.''

Nearly 45 years after its debut, ``The Muppet Show'' (which originally
ran in syndication from 1976 to 1981) remains a high-water mark for the
franchise. Fueled by the subversive imagination of the Muppets creator,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1990/05/17/obituaries/jim-henson-puppeteer-dies-the-muppets-creator-was-53.html?searchResultPosition=10}{Jim
Henson}, and a small band of like-minded performers and writers, it was
a backstage showbiz satire bolstered by kitschy celebrity hosts and a
madcap attitude inherited from sketch shows like ``Saturday Night Live''
(\href{https://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/dregs-and-vestiges/n8614}{where
the Muppets had previously appeared}) and ``Monty Python's Flying
Circus.''

The popularity of ``The Muppet Show'' paved the way for hit films like
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WS3Lkc6Gzlk}{``The Muppet Movie''}
(1979) which tempered the mayhem of the TV series with a sentimental
streak and endeared founding performers like Henson and Frank Oz to a
generation of viewers.

Image

Many of the sketches of ``Muppets Now'' parody popular online video
formats. Miss Piggy, left, hosts a beauty and lifestyle video
blog.Credit...Muppets Studio/Disney+

But keeping the Muppets relevant to modern audiences has proved elusive,
particularly since
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2004/02/18/business/kermit-and-miss-piggy-join-stable-of-walt-disney-stars.html?searchResultPosition=7}{they
were acquired by Disney} in 2004. (The Muppet characters created for
``Sesame Street'' remain the property of Sesame Workshop, a nonprofit
organization, while other shows like ``Fraggle Rock'' are owned by the
Jim Henson Company.)

A 2011 film, \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bUuh2Ku9PpQ}{``The
Muppets,''} written by Nicholas Stoller and Jason Segel (``Forgetting
Sarah Marshall'') was a critical and commercial hit that won an Academy
Award for its song
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRTjksM3YAs}{``Man or Muppet,''}
written by Bret McKenzie. But a 2014 follow-up,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CpXEfNU8Qwk}{``Muppets Most
Wanted,''} was a disappointment and quickly curtailed the revival.

In 2015, an ABC sitcom called
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nU2Ec5_3E2s}{``The Muppets''} drew
attention for its single-camera mockumentary style (similar to shows
like ``The Office'') and a plotline in which Kermit and Miss Piggy broke
up. But the show
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/22/arts/television/review-muppets-abc-kermit-ms-piggy.html?searchResultPosition=4}{was
not well-received}; it was
\href{https://deadline.com/2015/11/the-muppets-showrunner-bob-kushell-exit-kristin-newman-reboot-1201606360/}{troubled}
by
\href{https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/disney-says-fired-kermit-frog-actor-unacceptable-business-conduct-1021701}{staff
changes} and canceled after one season.

Barretta, who plays Muppets like Rowlf the Dog and Pepe the King Prawn,
said the approach of that sitcom ``was too much, too stereotypical of
the characters.''

Dan Silver, who is vice president of original unscripted content for
Disney+, agreed that serialized plot twists were not necessarily going
to bring viewers back to the Muppets. ``Sometimes it's not about if
Piggy and Kermit are going to get together,'' he said. ``It's about, how
does that make something funny in a skit?''

The Muppets have had other contemporary successes that seemed to point
to a path forward, including
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgbNymZ7vqY}{a 2009 viral video}
in which they performed Queen's pop-rock operetta ``Bohemian Rhapsody,''
and a live show presented at the Hollywood Bowl (in 2017) and London's
O2 Arena (in 2018).

Eric Jacobson, a Muppets performer who now plays Fozzie and Miss Piggy,
said that the live concerts were a crucial step in steering the puppet
troupe back to its fundamental values.

Image

The recurring ``Okey Dokey Kookin'' segment, hosted by the turkey
Beverly Plume, puts celebrity guests like Chef Carlina Will, right, in
the kitchen with the Swedish Chef.Credit...Muppets Studio/Disney+

``They were very collaborative experiences,'' Jacobson said of the
shows, which included classic Muppets numbers like ``Mahna Mahna'' and
``Rainbow Connection.''

``There was a real conscious effort to go back to the Muppets' roots, to
play up the personalities and that sense of abandon that people really
respond to,'' he added.

Last year,
\href{https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/muppets-shortform-series-a-go-at-disney-1234166}{Disney
announced} that it was working with the Muppets Studio to create a new
sketch show. (Another planned Muppets series being prepared by Adam
Horowitz and Edward Kitsis of ``Once Upon a Time'' and Josh Gad of
``Frozen''
\href{https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/live-feed/muppets-disney-comedy-series-scrapped-1238475}{was
halted around this time} amid creative differences.)

Silver, the Disney+ executive, said that ``Muppets Now'' should reflect
the elasticity of the underlying property. Like Mickey Mouse or the
Simpsons, he said, the Muppets are meant to ``live among us --- they're
not a nostalgia play, they just exist in whatever time we're in.''

What makes the Muppets work, he said, can be found in something as
rudimentary as \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ci9gPZnqiGY}{the
early test footage for ``The Muppet Movie''} that shows Henson and Oz
roaming the countryside as they ad-lib dialogue for Kermit the Frog,
Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear.

``It's just Jim and Frank figuring out, how do you put them in the real
world outside a studio?'' Silver said. ``It's completely improvised and
it's hilarious. The whole framework was there. It just needed to be
appropriated into today.''

The structure of ``Muppets Now,'' he said, was also suggested by going
back to the early days and taking a cue from the original ``Muppet
Show,'' which was in part a sendup of comedy-variety programs of the
1960s and 70s. As Silver put it: ``If `The Muppet Show' was a subversion
of Sonny and Cher and Ed Sullivan, what would that be in this day and
age? And the answer is YouTube.''

Taking the programming formats of streaming video and populating them
with its antic characters, ``Muppets Now'' gives us segments like a
beauty and lifestyle video blog hosted by Miss Piggy; a cooking
competition with the Swedish Chef; and a high-octane Muppet Labs science
test with Dr. Honeydew and Beaker. (Of course, there are also cheeky
cameos from celebrities like Aubrey Plaza, Danny Trejo and Linda
Cardellini.)

Most of the sketches were filmed last summer, amid a process that the
Muppet performers said was collaborative and open to a wide range of
inputs.

Image

``The Muppets have always flown by the seat of their pants,'' said Eric
Jacobson, who performs Fozzie. ``Our aim was to produce these segments
as though they were held together by spit and glue.''Credit...Muppets
Studio/Disney+

``When we're on set, there is discussion among the Muppet performers
with the writer and the producer and director,'' said Matt Vogel, who
plays Kermit the Frog.

``We'll talk it through before we shoot something,'' Vogel said, ``and
even when we're shooting things, the Muppet performers are pretty adept
at ad-libbing as long as it's character-appropriate.''

Still, some remaining footage for interstitial segments was produced
during the coronavirus pandemic. This required performers to record
themselves at home and required spouses, partners and children to lend a
hand or keep quiet during their creation.

Vogel explained that his family had grown accustomed to the unusual
parameters of his double life.

``I have five kids, and they're all used to having Muppets around the
house or being on set with Muppets,'' he said. ``They're always very
respectful and kind, but they have their own kid lives that they're more
concerned about than whether or not Kermit's playing the banjo in their
basement.''

Beyond this first season of ``Muppets Now,'' Disney and the Muppets
Studio are hopeful that the series will provide a starting point for
further projects, but they were wary when it came to discussing specific
plans.

``We definitely have ambitions for the Muppets to be doing more,'' said
Slaughter, the Muppets Studio vice president. ``But there's nothing that
we're ready to reveal at this point.''

In the meantime, the creators and performers on ``Muppets Now'' said
that, in trying to reproduce the do-it-yourself aesthetics of the
internet, they felt they had also tapped into something essential about
the Muppet characters: They are proud underdogs who seem to do their
best work with limited resources.

``The Muppets have always flown by the seat of their pants,'' Jacobson
said, explaining that they operate on ``primitive production values and
a very low bar that they set for themselves.''

``Our aim was to produce these segments as though they were held
together by spit and glue,'' he added.

The fact that ``Muppets Now'' is arriving during a summer when viewers
are famished for original content felt consistent with the minimal
aspirations of its title characters, Jacobson said.

Summoning up a self-deprecating sentiment that could just as easily come
from the mouth of
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=14njUwJUg1I}{Statler or Waldorf},
Jacobson said with a laugh, ``People's expectations for anything new on
television have gone down so much that the Muppets can actually
deliver.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
