Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Democrats Nominate Harris
for Vice President, as Obama Lashes Trump

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aEFUW5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{democrats-nominate-harris-for-vice-president-as-obama-lashes-trump}{%
\section{Democrats Nominate Harris for Vice President, as Obama Lashes
Trump}\label{democrats-nominate-harris-for-vice-president-as-obama-lashes-trump}}

Senator Kamala Harris became the first woman of color on a major party
ticket, while former President Barack Obama condemned President Trump by
name and issued a grim warning about the durability of American
democracy.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/19/us/politics/19vid-dnc-highlights-1/19vid-dnc-highlights-1-videoSixteenByNine3000-v4.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MILWAUKEE --- Democrats formally nominated Senator Kamala Harris for the
vice presidency on Wednesday night, placing a woman of color on a major
party ticket for the first time and showcasing the diversity of race and
gender they believe will energize their coalition to defeat President
Trump in the fall.

The third night of the party's national convention also featured a
striking repudiation of Mr. Trump by former President Barack Obama, a
break with the presidential custom of not criticizing a successor by
name. Mr. Obama praised Mr. Biden's character, contrasting it with Mr.
Trump's, and directed a portion of his remarks to voters undecided about
whom they will vote for, or whether they will vote at all.

``Donald Trump hasn't grown into the job, because he can't,'' Mr. Obama
said, growing emotional at points as he talked about the challenges
facing the country and democracy. ``The consequences of that failure are
severe. One hundred seventy thousand Americans dead. Millions of jobs
gone.''

A day after nominating
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/joe-biden-convention-speech.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, a 77-year-old fixture of Washington establishment
politics who served as Mr. Obama's vice president, Democrats tried to
make the case that while Mr. Biden would be one kind of change agent ---
a repudiation of Trumpism --- Ms. Harris would help steer the party in
new directions and reflect a changing America.

Speeches by Mr. Obama, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton,
Senator Elizabeth Warren and Speaker Nancy Pelosi were intended to
underscore the history-making moment of Ms. Harris's nomination,
highlighting her uniquely American biography: A child of immigrants and
a graduate of a historically Black university, she is one of the few
women of color elected to the United States Senate.

``We're at an inflection point,'' Ms. Harris, 55, said as she formally
accepted the nomination. ``The constant chaos leaves us adrift. The
incompetence makes us feel afraid. The callousness makes us feel alone.

``We can do better and deserve so much more. We must elect a president
who will bring something different, something better and do the
important work.''

Far more than the two previous nights, which centered on testimonials to
Mr. Biden's character and empathy, the program focused on policy,
addressing issues like gun violence, climate change, affordable child
care and immigration. In videos, activists promoted Mr. Biden's plans to
tackle a warming planet, and survivors of sexual assault and domestic
violence reminded viewers of his role in crafting the Violence Against
Women Act. The American child of a deported undocumented mother begged
the president to reunite families torn apart by his immigration policy.

In perhaps the most policy-heavy speech of the evening, Ms. Warren,
speaking from an early childhood learning center in her home state of
Massachusetts, praised Mr. Biden's ``really good plans.'' She
highlighted his proposals to make child care more affordable, to provide
universal preschool and to raise wages for child care workers.

Much of the evening was devoted to the power of women in politics. In a
week marking the hundredth anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which gave
women the right to vote, Ms. Pelosi and Mrs. Clinton, two of the most
influential women in politics, wore white as they delivered their
remarks, in homage to the suffragists. Both anointed Ms. Harris as a
successor of sorts, though they had declined to endorse her or any of
the other five women who sought the Democratic presidential nomination
during the primaries.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19dems-ledeall-screens2/merlin_175925307_d87bad76-6893-42cf-a751-6603f2d7f331-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Yet, even as Democrats championed change, they promised to keep fighting
for policies to combat sexual assault and domestic violence and to
improve access to affordable child care. The prominent airtime given to
those issues underscores the influence Democratic women have gained
during the Trump era. Women have emerged as the backbone of the party,
shattering records for political giving, running for office in
unprecedented numbers and overwhelmingly voting for Democrats.

Wednesday night's program, conducted virtually because of the
coronavirus pandemic, was a tribute to the constituencies that have
driven the party's rise during the Trump administration --- women,
minority voters, and young voters. While Ms. Harris was the evening's
main attraction, the program featured remarks from several of the most
powerful women in the party, as well as Spanish-language speakers,
victims of gun violence and everyday Americans meant to represent
marginalized slices of the electorate. Like the previous evenings, the
night combined elements of an old-fashioned variety show, a telethon and
a political event.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The most unexpected development of the night came from Mr. Obama, whose
condemnation of Mr. Trump was a departure from his first turn on the
convention stage, in 2004, when he catapulted to national prominence
with a soaring manifesto of hope and national unity. On Wednesday, his
message was darker, a reflection of a country changed by crisis and a
party desperate to oust an incumbent president. He offered a grim
warning about the durability of American democracy.

``This president and those in power --- those who benefit from keeping
things the way they are --- they are counting on your cynicism,'' Mr.
Obama said, addressing voters. ``They know they can't win you over with
their policies. So they're hoping to make it as hard as possible for you
to vote, and to convince you that your vote doesn't matter. That's how
they win.''

Mr. Obama has largely held his fire for three and a half years as Mr.
Trump has gone after him relentlessly with fierce attacks and baseless
smears. And the former president has mostly stayed out of American
politics, other than occasionally offering advice and endorsements to
Democratic candidates. Many supporters have long wished that he would
speak out against Mr. Trump; on Wednesday he did, focusing chiefly on
the Republican's approach to the pandemic, leadership and democracy.

He said the effects of the coronavirus crisis had made clear the stakes
of stable leadership, and he cited the American deaths from the virus
that Mr. Trump has rarely acknowledged. He also alluded to some of Mr.
Trump's most controversial moments, saying his actions had eroded
America's standing throughout the world.

Mr. Obama delivered his remarks from the Museum of the American
Revolution in Philadelphia, in a room with the U.S. Constitution
displayed on its walls. The subtext was clear: The core of the nation's
democracy was at stake.

``Do not let them take away your power,'' Mr. Obama said. ``Do not let
them take away your democracy.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/us/politics/20dems-ledeall-obama-p1/19dems-ledeall-obama-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

In her acceptance speech, Ms. Harris wove her personal story with
policies that she said would improve the lives of all Americans ``to
achieve the future we collectively want.'' Ms. Harris, who is of
Jamaican and Indian descent, said her experiences would ensure that the
perspective of people long marginalized in America ---
African-Americans, Asian-Americans, women, first-generation residents
--- would have a voice at the highest levels of Mr. Biden's
administration.

She said she was committed to ``a vision of our nation as a beloved
community --- where all are welcome, no matter what we look like, where
we come from, or who we love.''

While the pandemic denied Ms. Harris, California's junior senator, the
typical pomp that awaits any vice-presidential nominee --- a clamoring
convention audience of thousands --- it provided her a controlled
setting to reintroduce herself to the American people after her
unsuccessful presidential campaign. She delivered her remarks from Mr.
Biden's home state of Delaware --- rather than from Milwaukee, where the
convention was initially chosen to take place --- and she was introduced
by her sister and niece, both of whom played key roles in her primary
campaign, and her stepdaughter.

Though voters selected Mr. Biden as their nominee over candidates who
made up the most diverse slate ever in a presidential primary race, he
has often been cast as a transitional figure, selling himself as an
elder statesman who can stabilize a country in crisis and restore a
sense of decency to government. Ms. Harris, meanwhile, was positioned
Wednesday night to represent the diverse electorate that Democrats have
long maintained will enshrine them in power, a forward-looking
complement to Mr. Biden's steady hand.

Many Democrats have speculated about the possibility of Mr. Biden's
serving only one term if elected, and the selection of Ms. Harris as his
running mate installs her as the leading candidate for 2024 should he
choose not to run again.

Mrs. Clinton made the case for Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris as a team
offering policy and empathy, saying they could move the country forward
in areas such as housing and health care. She noted that Ms. Harris
would face attacks as a woman on the national ticket, but added, ``I
know something about the slings and arrows she'll face, and believe me,
this former district attorney and attorney general can handle them
all.''

Making an urgent plea for Americans to turn out for this election, Mrs.
Clinton said: ``This can't be another woulda, coulda, shoulda election.
No matter what, vote. Vote like our lives and livelihoods are on the
line --- because they are.''

On Wednesday, the program offered a diverse lineup of speakers, a
majority of whom were women. Former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of
Arizona, one of the country's most vocal advocates for stricter gun
laws, delivered a moving plea for curbing gun violence. Other speakers
addressed climate change, immigration and economic policy. An emotional
video featuring an undocumented family in North Carolina was filmed
entirely in Spanish, with English subtitles.

In a halting speech, Ms. Giffords, who has struggled with speaking since
being shot in the head at a congressional event in 2011, urged viewers
to support Mr. Biden.

``Words once came easily, but today I struggle to speak. But I have not
lost my voice,'' she said in a pretaped video. ``We must elect Joe
Biden. He was there for me. He'll be there for you, too.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19dems-ledeall-clinton/merlin_175921305_f4fc60ae-2cb5-4df9-85aa-fecf2dca8075-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Yet Ms. Harris was the night's unquestioned focus, showing signs of the
political prowess that once made her a top-tier presidential candidate.
During her campaign, she struggled to find a balance between the party's
progressive and moderate wings, and failed to deliver a consistent
message on policy.

While Democratic activists and political insiders pressured Mr. Biden to
showcase his commitment to diversity by selecting a Black or Latino
running mate, Democratic voters have rarely placed the same importance
on representation, even at a moment of rapidly changing national views
on race and gender.

During the primary race,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/us/politics/2020-election-black-voters.html}{many
Black voters expressed disenchantment} with the idea that racial
representation equated to change, and that they should automatically
support a candidate who looked like them. But with Ms. Harris on the
ballot, some Democrats believe that turnout among minority voters may be
higher, and that the same voters who overlooked her as a presidential
candidate will be inspired by her as a running mate.

But for all the embrace of Ms. Harris for symbolizing a new era of
Democratic politics, there was little on Wednesday night to suggest that
her ascension would lead to a break from mainstream party orthodoxy. A
former prosecutor and California attorney general, she supported ideas
like the expansive Green New Deal to combat climate change during her
presidential bid but rejected left-wing litmus tests such as ``Medicare
for all'' and higher taxes for the wealthiest Americans.

On issues such as racial equality, her proposed solutions mimicked the
policies of Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, not those of the activists who
pushed the Democratic Party leftward in recent years.

That did not stop Mr. Trump from trying to use her nomination as a
moment to sow division. ``BUT DIDN'T SHE CALL HIM A RACIST??? DIDN'T SHE
SAY HE WAS INCOMPETENT???'' the president tweeted, one of several
all-caps messages he sent during her and Mr. Obama's remarks.

Ms. Harris herself had a few zingers for Mr. Trump, harking back to her
years as a prosecutor fighting gangs, big banks and for-profit colleges.
``I know a predator when I see one,'' she said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
