Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Abruptly Cancels
Republican Convention in Florida: `It's Not the Right Time'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WRcezh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-abruptly-cancels-republican-convention-in-florida-its-not-the-right-time}{%
\section{Trump Abruptly Cancels Republican Convention in Florida: `It's
Not the Right
Time'}\label{trump-abruptly-cancels-republican-convention-in-florida-its-not-the-right-time}}

After forcing the convention to move from Charlotte to Jacksonville
because he wanted a big celebration, President Trump called off the
Florida portion, citing the health risks from the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23gop-convention/merlin_174881487_53836bf3-ff60-4417-81e6-129efa24429c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-patricia-mazzei/author-patricia-mazzei-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia Mazzei} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 23, 2020Updated July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Bowing to threats posed by the coronavirus,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-republican-convention-canceled-jacksonville.html}{President
Trump} reversed course on Thursday and canceled the portion of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-republican-convention-canceled-jacksonville.html}{Republican
National Convention} to be held in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-republican-convention-canceled-jacksonville.html}{Jacksonville},
Fla., just weeks after he moved the event from North Carolina because
state officials wanted the party to take health precautions there.

The surprise announcement threw one of the tent-pole moments of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-republican-convention-canceled-jacksonville.html}{Mr.
Trump's} re-election effort into limbo, with the president describing in
vague terms how the Republicans would hold his renomination in North
Carolina and do ``other things with tele-rallies and online.'' It was an
ill-defined sketch of an August week that Mr. Trump once envisioned
drawing huge crowds and energizing his struggling bid for a second term.

While Mr. Trump has spent weeks urging Florida and other states to
reopen their economies and return to life as normal,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{virus
cases have surged} in Jacksonville and across the region. The president
had insisted on moving ahead with the event until Thursday, talking up
the big party that Republicans would hold in Jacksonville even with the
dangers of large gatherings and some G.O.P. leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/politics/florida-virus-republican-convention.html}{saying
they would not attend}.

``We won't do a big, crowded convention, per se --- it's not the right
time for that,'' Mr. Trump said during a short news conference in the
White House briefing room, his third this week, as his aides try to
persuade the president to focus on treating the virus seriously in his
public comments.

The convention efforts in both Jacksonville and Charlotte, N.C., which
have preoccupied some G.O.P. officials and donors for months, now stand
as an object lesson in chaotic planning for a party that prizes its
ability to raise money and execute splashy displays.

The Jacksonville convention host committee had about \$6 million in
various accounts, and had spent some of that money already. It had \$20
million in commitments that were still firm on Tuesday, according to two
officials involved in the fund-raising. On Thursday, they were still
assessing whether donors would be able to get their money back but
assumed they would not be able to do so in full.

Dan Eberhart, a Republican donor, said that many donors didn't want to
give because they believed the event wouldn't happen. Edward E. Burr, a
real estate developer and member of the Jacksonville host committee,
said that in the past few days donors had been calling him expressing
serious concerns about the rising number of infections in Florida.

``I'm glad Donald Trump took his head out of the sand long enough to
realize what a predictable, preventable disaster he was about to inflict
on the city of Jacksonville,'' Terrie Rizzo, the chairwoman of the
Florida Democratic Party, said in a statement. ``His ego-driven
political stunt has wasted precious time and resources during a
pandemic.''

Mr. Trump claimed that his political advisers had tried to tell him they
could make the convention work in Jacksonville, noting the
``enthusiasm'' that was building. Florida is crucial to Mr. Trump's
re-election prospects, and he particularly needs support from older
people --- a population that is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/us/coronavirus-florida-elderly.html}{more
vulnerable to the virus} and makes up a large share of the state's
voters --- to prevail there on Election Day against
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}, who is
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2020/president/fl/florida_trump_vs_biden-6841.html\#polls}{leading
in most polls} in the state.

But the president tried to portray himself as more concerned about
public health. ``I said, `There's nothing more important in our country
than keeping our people safe,''' he said of his conversations with
advisers. ``I just felt it was wrong'' to have people ``going to what
turned out to be a hot spot.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The president's sudden focus on health concerns Thursday came after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/18/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-response-failure-leadership.html}{months
of playing down the virus}. He predicted only three weeks ago that it
would ``just disappear,'' and pushed party officials to proceed with
convention plans despite the alarming spike in virus cases in Florida
this month. As of this week, Republican officials were still meeting in
the state to make the convention a reality.

But as cases surged, voters, donors and elected officials from both
parties expressed skepticism about holding a big gathering just several
weeks away. A Quinnipiac University poll released on Thursday showed
that 62 percent of the state's voters thought the convention would be
unsafe to hold. The poll also showed Mr. Biden leading Mr. Trump by 13
percentage points in Florida; in a Quinnipiac poll in April, Mr. Biden
had a four-point lead.

Mr. Trump said that the decision to cancel the event was designed for
``safety'' and that the news media would have faulted him if he had
continued. He said the party might hold rallies that people could join
by telephone or video, adding that the actual work of the convention ---
approving the platform, for instance --- would take place in Charlotte,
the original site of the gathering.

Mr. Trump's news conference on Thursday was intended to be about a plan
for reopening schools in the fall. But he decided to announce his
convention move, overshadowing the other news.

The decision came after some of his advisers pleaded with him to start
taking the coronavirus more seriously, to try to revive
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-biden-poll-nyt-upshot-siena-college.html}{re-election
prospects that have cratered} over voter dissatisfaction with his
handling of the public health threat. The president held conversations
with his \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/bill-stepien.html}{new
campaign manager, Bill Stepien}, and the Republican National Committee
chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, according to people familiar with the
discussions.

The decision was made in the last 24 hours, the people said. The
discussions were so closely held that some people involved in convention
planning learned about the decision from Mr. Trump's news conference.

The president's advisers have urged him to treat the virus as if he were
a governor overseeing the threat of a hurricane --- offering gravitas
and taking the situation seriously, but assuring voters that the storm
will pass.

Until this week, Mr. Trump's performance had been exactly the opposite.

In early June, Mr. Trump forced the Republican National Committee to
walk away from Charlotte because North Carolina's governor, Roy Cooper,
a Democrat, would not guarantee him that there would be no health
restrictions. That potentially meant the president would not get the
type of adoring crowds he would have had before the virus struck.

Aides to Mr. Cooper strenuously denied that he had done anything other
than ask Republicans for a plan to keep people safe, and said that he
had suggested a scaled-down event. ``We can't do social distancing,''
Mr. Trump told Mr. Cooper in one of their calls, according to people
briefed on the discussion, which the R.N.C. followed up with a letter
demanding a full convention.

Democrats have announced they are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/us/politics/democratic-convention-milwaukee.html}{drastically
cutting back their convention in Milwaukee, Wis.}, over safety concerns,
and said last month they would hold an almost entirely virtual
convention. (Mr. Trump's private company moved to trademark the word
``\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-company-applied-to-trademark-telerally-then-president-trump-held-a-tele-rally/2020/07/22/0adca60e-cb7f-11ea-bc6a-6841b28d9093_story.html}{tele-rally}''
in a filing last week.)

But Mr. Trump was adamant about having his celebration. He turned to a
Republican ally, Gov. Ron DeSantis of Florida, who had rallied around
Mr. Trump's push to reopen states, to host the convention he craved.

Still, officials repeatedly warned Mr. Trump that the outbreak was
getting worse. In Florida, there were
\href{https://floridahealthcovid19.gov/}{10,239 new cases} on Thursday.
There were a reported 173 deaths, a record number.

State Senator Joe Gruters of Sarasota, the chairman of the Republican
Party of Florida, said he had been looking forward to hosting the
convention but understood Mr. Trump's decision.

``The president is obviously putting safety first and foremost, and I'm
glad,'' said Mr. Gruters, who had been working on convention planning
earlier on Thursday before learning about Mr. Trump's decision from the
afternoon news conference. ``We're disappointed that this is not coming
to Jacksonville, but Florida still loves the president, and we're going
to deliver the state.''

But Ron Klain, a former adviser to Mr. Biden who oversaw the Obama
administration's response to Ebola, said Mr. Trump's mockery of science
throughout much of the pandemic had finally caught up with him.

``I think it's emblematic of why we're in this mess,'' Mr. Klain said.
``This convention reversal really fits in with the mistakes he made in
May and June, when he belittled anyone who tried to learn the lessons of
the Northeast.''

Mr. Trump ``went on the attack on those people,'' Mr. Klain said, ``and
now we are paying the price.''

Mr. Trump made his announcement a day after the City Council drafted an
emergency ordinance that would have created a convention zone and an
area for protesters, and dealt with extended hours for alcohol sales,
music and fireworks, among other things. But those measures were not
certain to pass, given concerns raised earlier in the week by Mike
Williams, the sheriff of Duval County --- which encompasses Jacksonville
--- about insufficient resources for public safety.

``We can't pull it off,'' Mr. Williams told reporters.

Among those pleased with the president's decision was W.C. Gentry, a
Republican lawyer in Jacksonville who had filed a lawsuit on behalf of a
downtown church and group of small business owners trying to stop the
convention.

``This is great news for our city,'' he said. ``It would have created
the largest super-spreader event in history.''

Opposition to the convention began to cascade this week, Mr. Gentry
said, after Sheriff Williams issued his warning and the City Council
president, Tommy Hazouri, raised concerns about how much the event would
cost Jacksonville.

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, spoke with Sheriff
Williams on Tuesday. The security problems, ultimately, were taking too
long to resolve. And coupled with the rise in infections, the
environment became too difficult.

``It's the right decision,'' said Brian Ballard, the top Republican
lobbyist in Florida and a major party donor, who was one of the key
fund-raisers for the convention. ``The president made a smart decision
based on the science and safety, not only of Floridians but of people
around the country.''

Mr. Gentry was blunt about the daunting challenges Republicans faced.

``No one in their right mind would come here,'' Mr. Gentry said. ``This
thing was a nightmare for our community.''

``Everything was clearly coalescing to bring this thing to a halt,'' he
added, ``and I think that they chose the better course.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
