Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`Person. Woman. Man. Camera.
TV.' Didn't Mean What Trump Hoped It Did

\url{https://nyti.ms/3eXgbIM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

White House memo

\hypertarget{person-woman-man-camera-tv-didnt-mean-what-trump-hoped-it-did}{%
\section{`Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.' Didn't Mean What Trump Hoped
It
Did}\label{person-woman-man-camera-tv-didnt-mean-what-trump-hoped-it-did}}

The president said on Fox News that he had to remember those words as
part of a test that he said demonstrated his mental acuity. But the
test, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, is meant to detect signs of
dementia, Alzheimer's disease or other conditions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23dc-memo/merlin_174849120_eefa431d-ea5d-4519-a107-114c2a43b9e1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Presidents and those who would be president often boast
of their qualifications --- their education, their experience, their
achievements. And then there is President Trump, who is boasting about
his dementia test.

Even for a president who has rewritten the political rule book so many
times before, the spectacle of a commander in chief repeatedly touting
his performance on a cognitive examination to prove that he has not lost
a step paves new ground in the history of campaigns for the highest
office in the land.

Rather than dispensing with the issue, Mr. Trump drew new ridicule this
week when he
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-cognitive-test-results.html}{declared
it nothing short of ``amazing''} that he did so well on a test that,
among other things, required him to identify an elephant. To demonstrate
just how hard he said the test really was, he went on television to
recite, over and over, the words that he had been asked to remember in
the right order: ``Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.''

Cable television played the president's performance on a virtual loop on
Thursday, and those five words trended online. A group of anti-Trump
Republicans instantly produced an online ad mocking the president.
T-shirts, sweatshirts, hoodies and other clothing with ``Person. Woman.
Man. Camera. TV.'' emblazoned on them were quickly offered for sale.
They have in effect become the haiku of the 2020 campaign.

The reaction was not quite what the president was seeking. In
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/10/us/politics/trump-cognitive-test-health.html}{repeatedly
bringing up his cognitive test} in recent weeks, he has been trying to
bolster his strategy of questioning the mental acuity of his presumptive
Democratic presidential opponent, former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/business/joe-biden-stocks-taxes.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr}., whom he has portrayed as a doddering old man propped up
by his staff.

But in doing so, the president who has called himself a ``very stable
genius'' reinforced concerns about his own capacity, leaving voters who
are already confronting the oldest matchup of presidential candidates in
American history to decide which septuagenarian is still with it --- Mr.
Trump at 74 or Mr. Biden at 77.

Mr. Biden has sought to fend off questions about his state of mind for
months, going back to the primary campaign when fellow Democrats pointed
to gaffes, misstatements and stumbles over words.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/12/us/politics/castro-biden-memory-age-debate.html}{At
one debate}, an opponent jabbed him by suggesting he could not remember
something he had said only two minutes earlier.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In the months since, Mr. Biden has been less visible than a challenger
normally would be because of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{coronavirus
pandemic} that has forced lockdowns and canceled traditional campaign
rallies. But Democrats privately express concern about the potential for
embarrassing moments once the campaign ratchets up in the fall.

Mr. Biden sought to dismiss any concerns at a news conference three
weeks ago, telling reporters that he was up to the rigors of the
campaign trail and the presidency when asked if he had taken a cognitive
test. ``I've been tested, and I'm constantly tested,''
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-eager-to-compare-cognitive-ability-against-trumps}{he
said}. ``Look, all you've got to do is watch me, and I can hardly wait
to compare my cognitive capability to the cognitive capability of the
man I'm running against.''

In fact, Mr. Biden's answer was misleading. Aides have since said that
his reference to being tested did not mean that he took a cognitive test
like Mr. Trump has, but that he has been tested by the challenges of a
national campaign.

Mr. Biden's camp was happy to jump on Thursday on the president's latest
comments. Kate Bedingfield, Mr. Biden's deputy campaign manager, pointed
out that Mr. Trump recently suggested injecting disinfectant to counter
the coronavirus and he has been reported to once ask aides about using
nuclear weapons to disrupt hurricanes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23dc-memo2/merlin_174804489_2906c032-3efa-4c7a-8a78-741db713aec7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``He has shunned the advice of doctors, medical experts and scientists
throughout the pandemic and promised that the virus will magically
`disappear,''' she said. ``His erratic and unstable leadership has given
Americans tremendous doubts about his fitness to hold the office before
you even get to him continually and pointedly raising doubts about his
own cognitive ability.''

Mr. Biden has the edge upstairs in the view of the public.
\href{https://thehill.com/hilltv/what-americas-thinking/508159-poll-trump-trails-biden-voter-views-mental-physical-fitness}{In
a poll by The Hill newspaper} with the HarrisX research firm released
this week, 56 percent of voters said the former vice president was
mentally fit to lead the nation, while just 45 percent said that of Mr.
Trump.

Other American presidents have struggled with cognitive or psychological
issues but rarely addressed them publicly the way Mr. Trump has.
\href{https://www.pubfacts.com/detail/16462555/Mental-illness-in-US-Presidents-between-1776-and-1974-a-review-of-biographical-sources}{A
Duke University study} in 2006 found that nearly half of presidents
suffered from mental illness at some point in their lives. Nearly 25
percent of presidents
\href{https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-squeaky-wheel/201602/study-half-all-presidents-suffered-mental-illness}{met
the criteria for depression}, according to the study, including James
Madison, Abraham Lincoln and Calvin Coolidge. Ronald Reagan's aides were
concerned enough that he was slipping late in his presidency that they
secretly considered whether to invoke the 25th Amendment to remove him
for incapacity before deciding he was still fit enough to finish his
tenure.

Mr. Trump has been unclear about when he took the cognitive test he has
recently been eager to discuss. Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, who was then his
White House physician, reported in 2018 that the president had taken
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/trump-cognitive-test.html}{the
Montreal Cognitive Assessment, or MOCA}, and scored a perfect 30 points.
Lately, Mr. Trump has said he took a test ``a little less than a year
ago,'' but White House officials would not clarify whether he took a
second test or was referring imprecisely to the one Dr. Jackson reported
two years ago.

In unscripted moments before the camera, the president sometimes wanders
from topic to topic without completing a train of thought, repeats
himself or falls back on the same familiar phrases when questioned. He
makes statements that defy common sense, like insisting that if there
were not so many coronavirus tests conducted, there would not be so many
cases of the virus, which as skeptics have pointed out is roughly
equivalent to saying that there would not be as many pregnancies if
there were not as many pregnancy tests administered.

The Montreal Cognitive Assessment is meant to test for signs of
dementia, Alzheimer's disease or other conditions, but the president
talked about it on Fox News on Wednesday night as if he had aced an IQ
test proving his intelligence. Experts said that reflected a
misunderstanding about the purpose and value of the exam.

``It is good that he has a good score, and it's very good that he has a
higher than average score, so this is reassuring in terms of cognitive
dysfunction,'' Dr. Ziad Nasreddine, the neurologist who created the
test, said in an interview. ``It obviously does not measure whether a
person is fit to be president.''

Dr. Nasreddine said about 10 percent of those in their 70s get a perfect
score of 30, but it is meant to detect fading capacity, not
intelligence. For those suffering from a degenerative condition,
summoning the word for elephant when shown a drawing of it can be
frustratingly difficult, and Dr. Nasreddine expressed concern that the
mockery the president had experienced might discourage patients from
taking the test.

\href{https://www.parkinsons.va.gov/resources/MOCA-Test-English.pdf}{On
a sample exam,} those tested are asked to draw a clock; to count
backward by sevens from 100; to name the date, month, year and place;
and to identify drawings of animals like a lion or camel. They are also
read a list of five words and asked to repeat them in order twice, then
asked that again five minutes later to see if they still recall them.

``They said nobody gets it in order,'' Mr. Trump boasted on Wednesday on
Fox. ``It's actually not that easy, but for me, it was easy. And that's
not an easy question. In other words, they ask it to you, they give you
five names and you have to repeat 'em. And that's OK. If you repeat 'em
out of order, it's OK, but, you know, it's not as good. But when you go
back about 20, 25 minutes later and they say go back to that --- they
don't tell you this --- `Go back to that question and repeat 'em, can
you do it?' And you go: `Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.'''

Mr. Trump insisted that the doctors were blown away by his ability to
remember them and suggested that Mr. Biden take it as well. ``They say,
`That's amazing. How did you do that?''' the president said. ``I do it
because I have, like, a good memory, because I'm cognitively there. Now,
Joe should take that test, because something's going on. And, and, I say
this with respect. I mean --- going to probably happen to all of us,
right? You know? It's going to happen.''

As many of his critics quickly noted, recalling the five words in order
has no relevance to the mental conditions Mr. Trump is often accused of
having, such as narcissistic personality disorder. His estranged niece
Mary L. Trump, a clinical psychologist, published a scathing book about
her uncle's troubled family and has been on television in recent days
saying that he has ``so many pathologies'' and ``demonstrates
sociopathic tendencies.''

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rOkx-PAHUrQ}{Appearing on Stephen
Colbert's ``The Late Show''} on Wednesday, Ms. Trump was not ready to
accept her uncle's account of the results of his cognitive test. ``So
you know, we don't know how he did on it,'' she said, ``but as far as
I'm concerned, his talking about it the way he's talking about it is
failing the test.''

``Bragging about passing a cognitive test is one of the ways you fail a
cognitive test,'' Mr. Colbert said.

``Yeah,'' she responded.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
