Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Republican Stimulus Talks
Stall Over Differences on Unemployment

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fWzzab}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{republican-stimulus-talks-stall-over-differences-on-unemployment}{%
\section{Republican Stimulus Talks Stall Over Differences on
Unemployment}\label{republican-stimulus-talks-stall-over-differences-on-unemployment}}

Disputes over how to extend supplemental jobless benefits --- and a
White House push for money for a new F.B.I. building --- slowed efforts
to agree to an opening bid in negotiations with Democrats.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23dc-cong/merlin_174871641_5ed4391a-79a1-4dde-b33b-34a68b9b438a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/19/multimedia/author-jim-tankersley/author-jim-tankersley-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-rappeport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-alan-rappeport/author-alan-rappeport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily Cochrane},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jim-tankersley}{Jim Tankersley} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan Rappeport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Republicans stumbled on Thursday in their efforts to find
agreement on a broad new proposal to lift the struggling economy, with
Senate leaders and the Trump administration at odds over multiple
provisions, including how to extend unemployment benefits and White
House requests for spending unrelated to the pandemic.

Even after President Trump folded on one of his key demands, for a
payroll tax cut, negotiations bogged down over details of the package,
including how to reduce the amount of money that Americans are currently
receiving as unemployment benefits.

Senate Republican leaders and administration officials were also
discussing a push from the White House for money to rebuild the F.B.I.
headquarters in Washington, long a preoccupation of the president, whose
hotel is nearby on Pennsylvania Avenue, according to two people familiar
with the talks.

Talks had reached consensus on several other fronts, including dropping
Mr. Trump's proposed payroll tax cut --- an idea that had little support
in either party on Capitol Hill --- and providing additional loans to
help small businesses endure the crisis.

The snag in negotiations delayed until Monday the rollout of what will
effectively be Republicans' opening bid in negotiations with
congressional Democrats over a new
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/business/economy/600-unemployment-benefits.html}{stimulus}
package. Republicans have said they would support a package of around
\$1 trillion for this round of stimulus, while Democrats are demanding
\$3 trillion.

Thursday's intramural squabbling among Republicans only increased the
likelihood that Congress and Mr. Trump will fail to reach a deal before
the supplemental benefit of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/business/unemployment-payments-change.html}{\$600
per week for unemployed Americans} expires at month's end. Failure to
extend the supplemental benefit would result in sudden income losses for
millions of people at a time when the economic recovery appears to have
stagnated.

Lawmakers of both parties rejected the administration's suggestion that
Congress consider temporarily extending the enhanced unemployment
insurance benefits and funding schools in a smaller bill while the
larger stimulus package is hashed out.

``The administration has requested additional time to review the fine
details, but we will be laying down this proposal early next week,''
said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader. The final
elements, he said, would be revealed by Republicans on Monday after
final negotiations with the administration.

``The sum of these efforts will be a strong, targeted piece of
legislation aimed directly at the challenges we face right now,'' he
added.

The administration's push for language to deal with a new F.B.I.
headquarters was among multiple last-minute snags in the negotiations.
Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/18/us/politics/fbi-headquarters-building-trump.html}{has
previously taken steps} to block a planned move by the bureau to the
Washington suburbs and to turn its existing headquarters space over to a
commercial developer, who could have installed a hotel to compete with
the Trump International Hotel, which sits a block away.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T09:15:14.275Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Democrats criticized Mr. Trump this week after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/world/europe/trump-british-open.html}{The
New York Times reported} that he had urged his ambassador to Britain to
push officials there to select a golf club Mr. Trump owns in Scotland to
host the British Open tournament.

Asked during his daily briefing whether the request for money for the
headquarters,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2020/07/23/congress-stimulus-coronavirus-trump/?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-high_virushill-9am\%3Ahomepage\%2Fstory-ans}{first
reported by The Washington Post}, was an issue in negotiations, Mr.
Trump said there was ``a lot of danger'' in the building's current
condition.

``I've been encouraging them to build it, and you have a choice, you can
renovate the existing building,'' he said, adding that a new building
could include a quarter-mile track on its roof. ``I know they are
talking about it, whether or not they put it in this bill or someplace
else, but the F.B.I. needs a new building and we'll get it done.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23dc-cong2/merlin_174871614_67a7f2af-9e8a-4596-9841-bbd7af26de18-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Administration negotiators had proclaimed in the morning that an
agreement was close at hand. Lobbyists circulated an outline of what was
in it. Speaker Nancy Pelosi invited Senator Chuck Schumer of New York,
the minority leader, to her weekly news conference, she said, in
anticipation of offering a unified Democratic rebuttal to the Republican
plan.

But Thursday ended without the release of legislative text. Lawmakers
and aides sketched out the broad contours of a deal, with the persistent
caveat that nothing was yet final.

Mr. McConnell said the package would include another round of direct
payments to individuals, building on checks the Treasury Department sent
to low- and middle-income households this spring.

The bill will also include a partial extension of enhanced unemployment
benefits, at a lower level than laid-off workers are currently
receiving, though there did not appear to be a final agreement between
the administration and Senate Republicans on the details.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mark Meadows, the White House
chief of staff, told reporters after meeting with Mr. McConnell on
Thursday morning that they would seek to limit the benefits to 70
percent of the wages workers had been receiving before they lost their
jobs. For a typical worker, such a shift would mean \$400 less per week
in benefits --- a drop from \$600 in enhanced support now to about \$200
under the proposal.

The exact mechanics of how that plan would work were still unfinished on
Thursday.

Democrats said states would not have the time or the ability to engineer
such a shift in benefit provisions before August, leaving unemployed
workers struggling to make rent. They also said they would insist on
renewing the \$600 weekly benefit.

The day's private lunch for Senate Republicans --- a meal of alligator
sausage, crab bisque and stuffed bell peppers furnished by Senator John
Kennedy of Louisiana --- featured a lively exchange of stories, but few
details about why progress toward an agreement had slowed.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Not a dang thing do I have for you --- seriously,'' Senator Lisa
Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, said as she left the lunch on Thursday.
``I was really hoping to be able to report to Alaskans what the contours
of the Republican plan were. Now I won't be able to, unless there's
something that comes out in the news.''

Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota, told reporters that
when lawmakers asked Mr. McConnell what progress had been made, he told
them, ``We're working on it.''

Democrats accused their counterparts of wasting time and jeopardizing
lives. ``Now that Senate Republicans have finally woken up to the
calamity in our country, they have been so divided, so disorganized, so
unprepared that they have struggled to even draft a partisan proposal
within their own conference,'' Mr. Schumer said. ``They can't come
together.''

Ms. Pelosi also rejected a suggestion from Mr. Mnuchin that Congress
should take up a smaller package that prioritizes a few issues: the
unemployment benefits, money for schools and liability protections for
businesses and other institutions that are seeking to reopen.

``No, no, no --- this is the package,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ``We cannot
piecemeal this.''

Some details on the package's contents became clear on Thursday, from
summaries of the plan circulating on Capitol Hill and from comments by
Mr. McConnell and some Republican committee leaders, like Senator Marco
Rubio of Florida, who announced new plans to aid small businesses.

Mr. Rubio told reporters on Thursday that he expected the legislation to
include at least \$200 billion --- in new funds and reallocated aid from
previous packages --- to assist small businesses.

That would include allowing certain hard-hit small businesses to apply
for a second round of loans from the Paycheck Protection Program, which
lawmakers created in March, and giving recipients more flexibility in
how they could spend the money. The proposal would also restrict the
number of eligible businesses, including by requiring evidence of steep
revenue losses.

Mr. Rubio would also create an alternative loan program that would allow
eligible businesses in low-income communities to receive long-term,
low-interest loans that would cover their operating expenses through the
expected duration of the crisis.

Despite the lack of final consensus on the Republican side, White House
officials remained hopeful they could pull off an agreement in short
order.

``Those deadlines, as you well know, on Capitol Hill always work magic
in the 11th hour,'' Mr. Meadows said.

Luke Broadwater, Nicholas Fandos and Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
