Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Moves to Roll Back
Obama Program Addressing Housing Discrimination

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WKR5qv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-moves-to-roll-back-obama-program-addressing-housing-discrimination}{%
\section{Trump Moves to Roll Back Obama Program Addressing Housing
Discrimination}\label{trump-moves-to-roll-back-obama-program-addressing-housing-discrimination}}

The move coincides with efforts by the president's re-election campaign
to shore up support among white suburban voters.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/23/us/politics/23dc-housing/merlin_164051451_b447a097-fa10-4905-bfad-44fc07445c7f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/hailey-fuchs}{Hailey Fuchs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Trump administration moved on Thursday to eliminate
an Obama-era program intended to combat racial segregation in suburban
housing, saying it amounted to federal overreach into local communities.

The rule, introduced in 2015, requires cities and towns to identify
patterns of discrimination, implement corrective plans and report
results. The administration's decision to complete a process of
rescinding it culminates a yearslong campaign to gut the rule by
conservative critics and members of the administration who claimed it
overburdened communities with complicated regulations.

A new rule, which removes the Obama administration's requirements for
localities, will become effective 30 days after it is published in the
Federal Register.

The move comes as President Trump's re-election campaign contends with
waning support among white suburban voters, particularly suburban women.
The decision to eliminate the rule
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/politics/trump-obama-housing-discrimination.html}{echoes
the president's recent efforts} to appeal to white grievances as he
seeks to maintain support in suburbs.

Within hours of the announcement by Ben Carson, the secretary of housing
and urban development, Mr. Trump promoted his position on Twitter,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1286372175117791236?s=20}{posting}
a New York Post
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/07/21/joe-bidens-disastrous-plans-for-americas-suburbs/}{opinion
article} attacking the Obama housing rule and former Vice President
Joseph R. Biden Jr., the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee,
for supporting it.

``The Suburban Housewives of America must read this article,'' Mr. Trump
said. ``Biden will destroy your neighborhood and your American Dream. I
will preserve it, and make it even better!''

Mr. Trump had signaled last month that he was considering a full
rollback of the rule. In a
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1278136326647406593?lang=en}{tweet},
he wrote that the program had a ``devastating impact on these once
thriving Suburban areas.'' He added, ``Corrupt Joe Biden wants to make
them MUCH WORSE.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

A spokesman for the Biden campaign called the elimination of the rule a
distraction from the president's handling of the coronavirus. Mr. Biden
has proposed a housing policy that some Republicans say would undercut
traditional suburban neighborhoods of single-family homes.

The Obama administration introduced its rule in 2015 to enforce the 1968
Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination among housing
providers. Failure to comply with the new rule jeopardized federal
funds, and opponents claimed that it intruded upon the right of
localities to make decisions about their own neighborhoods.

Dr. Carson has been a vocal opponent of the rule since his 2016
presidential bid. After he became housing secretary, the former
neurosurgeon
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/04/upshot/trump-delays-hud-fair-housing-obama-rule.html}{announced
plans} to suspend the program in January 2018, citing concerns raised by
cities that struggled to comply with its requirements. He claimed that
he would delay its resumption until communities had the necessary tools.

Two years later, the department published a proposal that would water
down the original rule by eliminating the original mandate that cities
and towns address housing discrimination.

A study from researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
found that under the Obama rule, municipalities proposed more ambitious
fair housing goals. Justin Steil, a co-author of the study, said that
the program initially faced some difficulties, including complaints from
localities that its requirements were onerous, but that those issues
could have been resolved with time.

The elimination of the Obama-era rule is one of several efforts by the
housing department to roll back housing regulations. It announced in
August a proposal that would make it more difficult to prove some
discrimination cases --- those known as disparate impact claims
---~under the Fair Housing Act by establishing a higher bar of proof.

The new and final replacement for the Obama-era program, called
Preserving Community and Neighborhood Choice, broadly reinterpreted the
meaning of ``affirmatively furthering fair housing.'' Now, it makes no
mention of segregation.

The housing department and the Office of Management and Budget waived
the comment period for the new rule to speed its enactment, which raised
concern among critics of the administration's decision.

They argued that the old rule's elimination had killed the first effort
in decades to ensure the protections afforded by the Fair Housing Act.
Diane Yentel, president of the National Low Income Housing Coalition,
said the Trump administration was exploiting the political ramifications
of a racially motivated policy change to boost his re-election campaign.

Shaun Donovan, the former housing secretary who created the Obama
administration policy, was scathing in his criticism of the Trump
administration's move.

``This is a blatantly racist appeal to and attempt to return us to an
era when the federal government actively implemented racist policies
based on the false notion that Black families moving to white
communities brings down property values,'' said Mr. Donovan, who is now
running for mayor of New York City.

The move to end the program also comes amid monthslong protests against
racism spurred by the death of George Floyd. The disparity in
homeownership between Black and white households is
\href{https://www.urban.org/research/publication/explaining-black-white-homeownership-gap-closer-look-disparities-across-local-markets/view/full_report}{the
highest it has been in 50 years}.

This new rule ``will take us backwards,'' said Debby Goldberg, a vice
president at the National Fair Housing Alliance. ``If you're looking to
tackle the problem of segregation and widespread systemic discrimination
--- if you're looking to create a prosperous country where that
prosperity is shared by everybody --- then adopting this rule is 100
percent the wrong move to make.''

But in his announcement on Thursday, Dr. Carson called the old rule ``a
ruse for social engineering under the guise of desegregation.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
