Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}\textbar{}FIFA President Gianni
Infantino Faces Criminal Investigation

\url{https://nyti.ms/3geLu3r}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fifa-president-gianni-infantino-faces-criminal-investigation}{%
\section{FIFA President Gianni Infantino Faces Criminal
Investigation}\label{fifa-president-gianni-infantino-faces-criminal-investigation}}

A new inquiry takes aim at undisclosed meetings with a Swiss official
leading investigations into soccer corruption.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/sports/30fifa1/merlin_171965208_18dd7869-3444-4ed7-bd40-2d738c33e827-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/tariq-panja}{Tariq Panja}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

A federal prosecutor in Switzerland said on Thursday that he had opened
a criminal investigation into Gianni Infantino, the president of FIFA,
after concluding that there were ``indications of criminal conduct'' in
meetings between Infantino and an official overseeing an investigation
into soccer corruption.

The investigation follows the resignation last week of Switzerland's
attorney general, Michael Lauber, who stepped down after a federal court
upheld allegations that he had lied about meeting with Infantino. Lauber
had been overseeing an investigation of the 2015 corruption scandal that
led to criminal indictments against some of the top leaders at FIFA,
soccer's Switzerland-based world governing body. The scandal led to the
ouster of most of FIFA's senior leadership, and paved the way for
Infantino's victory in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/27/sports/soccer/gianni-infantino-is-elected-fifa-president.html}{a
special presidential election} a year later.

The federal prosecutor, Stefan Keller, announced the new investigation
after reviewing two complaints made against Infantino, Lauber and
Rinaldo Arnold, a regional prosecutor and a childhood friend of
Infantino's who had helped arrange meetings between the FIFA president
and the attorney general. Arnold is also under investigation, Keller's
office said. Prosecutors called for Lauber's immunity to be lifted so he
could be investigated, too.

In a statement, Keller said the allegations in two new complaints
against Infantino, Lauber and Arnold center on the abuse of public
office, breach of official secrecy, assisting offenders and incitement
to break the law.

The announcement is the latest legal complication for Infantino and
Lauber, the attorney general, since details of their meetings emerged
more than a year ago. They first came to light after a leak of emails by
the Football Leaks platform, and became subject to more scrutiny when
both men failed to remember what had been discussed at a meeting at a
hotel in 2017, the third the pair had held in 15 months.

``On the basis of general life experience, such a case of collective
amnesia is an aberration,'' was the conclusion in the
\href{https://www.bvger.ch/bvger/fr/home/medias/medienmitteilungen-2020/lauber.html}{federal
court ruling} that largely upheld an earlier censure of Lauber.

Infantino has pushed back against the allegations, which have been the
focus of intense news media interest in his native Switzerland and in
Germany. In a statement on Thursday, Infantino pledged to continue to
assist the Swiss investigations into FIFA.

``People remember well where FIFA was as an institution back in 2015,
and how substantial judicial intervention was actually required to help
restore the credibility of the organization,'' Infantino said. ``As
president of FIFA, it has been my aim from Day One, and it remains my
aim, to assist the authorities with investigating past wrongdoings at
FIFA.''

But FIFA's statement also pointedly rejected any implication of
wrongdoing. ``To meet with the Attorney General of Switzerland is
perfectly legitimate and it's perfectly legal,'' Infantino said last
week. ``It's no violation of anything.''

When he resigned, Lauber insisted he had been truthful at all times, but
he said his position had become untenable. ``The fact that I am not
believed as the attorney general is detrimental to the federal
prosecution office,'' he said.

Keller, the federal prosecutor, was appointed in July after the receipt
of anonymous criminal complaints that Infantino described as ``quite
absurd.''

The speed of the proceedings against Infantino is in stark contrast with
the plodding pace of previous Swiss soccer investigations, including the
one started after a 2014 complaint by FIFA about suspected money
laundering in the 2018 and 2022 World Cup bidding campaigns.

Since then, a number of other cases have been opened, but none have
concluded with a conviction. The only criminal trial, against a group of
former German soccer officials, collapsed because it had surpassed a
statute of limitations.

Lauber held a news conference after the details of the first two
meetings with Infantino were revealed by Football Leaks. He claimed they
were justified because of the longstanding investigation into the soccer
body, though he recused himself from the FIFA case anyway. A third
meeting came to light only after further revelations by the news media.

That disclosure prompted an inquiry into Lauber's conduct by a
supervisory body. In March, it punished him by cutting his salary by 8
percent. Lauber then hired the same lawyer as the former FIFA president
Sepp Blatter, who is facing a separate criminal investigation, to mount
an appeal.

That panel restored some of the salary reduction, but it also issued
scathing comments about his conduct in its final ruling.

Lauber, the panel said, had ``intentionally made a false statement'' to
the supervisory body ``and knowingly concealed the third meeting with
FIFA president Infantino.''

The investigation is a new blow for FIFA, which has tried to turn the
corner on the corruption scandal by instituting governance reforms under
Infantino.

Infantino, a former official at European soccer's governing body, UEFA,
has often claimed the days of cronyism and corruption are now behind the
organization. But accusations of wrongdoing against senior officials
have continued. A day after Infantino had told the FIFA Congress in
Paris last year that the days of scandal were over, one of his vice
presidents, the head of African soccer,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/06/sports/fifa-ahmad-ahmad.html}{was
arrested and questioned} by French financial prosecutors.

A separate FIFA ethics probe into the official, Ahmad Ahmad, has yet to
come to a conclusion even though the case has been with its
investigators for more than a year.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
