Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/baseball}{Baseball}\textbar{}Miami Marlins
Outbreak Wreaks Havoc on M.L.B. Schedule

\url{https://nyti.ms/2X4Vepe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{miami-marlins-outbreak-wreaks-havoc-on-mlb-schedule}{%
\section{Miami Marlins Outbreak Wreaks Havoc on M.L.B.
Schedule}\label{miami-marlins-outbreak-wreaks-havoc-on-mlb-schedule}}

M.L.B. announced that the Marlins would not play games until Monday, and
the ripple effects altered the plans of five teams and sent a sense of
unease throughout the league.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/sports/28mlb-virus1/merlin_174999483_9621e679-84f8-4b52-b3ec-ed154b8fd3f1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tyler-kepner}{Tyler
Kepner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Less than a week into Major League Baseball's long-delayed season, its
schedule was thrown into turmoil on Tuesday because of the Miami
Marlins' continuing escalation of positive coronavirus tests.

The Marlins have at least 17 positive cases within their traveling party
--- including 15 players --- and will not play again until Monday at the
earliest. The Philadelphia Phillies, who hosted the Marlins for three
games last weekend, will not play again until Friday.

The ripple effects of those changes affected three other teams: the
Yankees, the Baltimore Orioles and the Washington Nationals.

The outbreak and the havoc it has wreaked sent a sense of unease
throughout M.L.B., even as the rest of the league's 30 clubs continued
playing as planned.

``There's a real level of fear and anxiety for all of us, especially all
of us that have children, anybody who may have underlying health
conditions, anybody who has an older parent, coaches and everybody
else,'' Ryan Braun, the Milwaukee Brewers veteran and the 2011 National
League most valuable player, said before a game in Pittsburgh on
Tuesday. ``So it's definitely not easy. It's something we're all
struggling with, to an extent, and it makes it really difficult to
concentrate on baseball.''

The Marlins were scheduled to play four games against the Orioles this
week, and the Phillies were scheduled to play four against the Yankees,
with each team hosting two games in both series. Instead, the Yankees
will play the Orioles in Baltimore on Wednesday and Thursday. The
Nationals, who were scheduled to play in Miami this weekend, will
instead be off.

``Given the current circumstances, M.L.B. believes that it is most
prudent to allow the Marlins time to focus on providing care for their
players and planning their baseball operations for a resumption early
next week,'' the league said in a statement.

No other teams have had a new confirmed case since Friday, the league
said, adding that the individuals with the Marlins who tested positive
were in isolation and receiving care. The team has remained in
Philadelphia and is undergoing daily testing.

The Marlins played the Phillies on Sunday after learning that four
players had tested positive. Nine more members of their traveling party
were found to have tested positive on Monday, and four more cases were
confirmed on Tuesday.

The Phillies have not registered any new positives since the beginning
of the season, but were undergoing more tests on Tuesday.

Even so, the team's plans rapidly changed. On Tuesday morning, even
after that night's Phillies-Yankees game in Philadelphia had been
postponed, the Phillies still expected to play the Yankees in the Bronx
this week.

But a little after noon, about 45 minutes before the Yankees were
expecting to depart Philadelphia for New York, Yankees General Manager
Brian Cashman contacted Manager Aaron Boone and reliever Zack Britton,
the team's players' union representative, with the new plan.

``We had not left,'' Boone said, ``but our equipment was starting down
the road.''

For now, the league still hopes to have every team play 60 games this
season. The Phillies and the Marlins could conceivably reach that number
by playing doubleheaders or playing on mutual off days. But it could be
that teams will end up playing a different total of games, as they did
in the strike-affected seasons of 1972 and 1981.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    While live sports are back, spectators are not in most cases.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/sports/empty-stadiums-live-fans.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Readers}
    comment on what they were missing as fans in the stands.
  \item
    The Canadian Football League
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/sports/cfl-season-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{became
    the latest casualty} of the pandemic, canceling its 2020 season
    after repeated efforts to play an abbreviated schedule fell through.
  \item
    The United States Open tennis tournament will have the weakest
    women's field in its history after second-ranked
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/sports/tennis/us-open-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{Simona
    Halep withdrew}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``I think for the players, we understand that it might not be perfect in
the competitive balance of things this year, and that's just the nature
of the environment that we're in,'' Britton said. ``The goal for us is
to stay healthy and play as many games as we can, have the opportunity
to hopefully play a postseason.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/sports/28mlb-hoskins/merlin_174972495_779ca6b2-3d8c-460f-a86a-8c154601b9da-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Marlins' outbreak, and a schedule that is suddenly in flux,
illustrated how one team's cluster of positive tests can threaten the
viability of the season. Cashman noted that the ``genius'' of baseball's
adjusted regional schedule for this year made it easier for teams to
pivot to different locations, but constant scrambling could become
untenable, and Cashman could not say with confidence that the season
will be completed.

``I can tell you we're going to do everything in our power to do
everything the right way and play baseball as long as we can, and if
something changes, it changes,'' he said. ``We're looking forward to
playing the Orioles tomorrow.''

That is the prevailing approach around the majors, with baseball's most
popular cliché --- taking things one game at a time --- now set against
a different backdrop. More than a dozen players, including two former Cy
Young Award winners, opted out of the season before the outbreak, and
more could follow as players calibrate the risks of travel.

``It's day to day,'' Braun said. ``We're constantly assessing the
situation, seeing where we're at, but it's not easy for any of us to
think that we'll be flying home back to our families tomorrow night, and
we won't get the test results from today or tomorrow for a couple of
days.''

Phillies Manager Joe Girardi said Tuesday that the Marlins' outbreak
should serve as a warning to the rest of the league. The Phillies' Rhys
Hoskins wears a mask while playing first base, Bryce Harper wore a mask
on the bases Sunday and shortstop Didi Gregorius wears a mask at all
times on the field. Girardi said the Phillies have been more attentive
since a cluster of cases shut down their training complex in Clearwater,
Fla., in June.

``It was real to us; there are players in our clubhouse now, and
coaches, that went through this and saw how quickly it spread,'' Girardi
said. ``I think we had eight or nine cases in Clearwater, and we didn't
have that many people there. So this is a great wake-up call, and I
think baseball will probably pay more attention to it.''

The Marlins' outbreak also drew the attention of public officials back
in Miami. Florida --- home of the Marlins and the Tampa Bay Rays ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{has
among the highest infection rates} in the country, and before M.L.B. put
the Marlins' season on hold, the Nationals had already voted as a team
against traveling to Miami this weekend.

Mayor Carlos Giménez of Miami-Dade County cast doubt Tuesday on the
wisdom of the Marlins returning to their home market.

``If you think that somehow you're going to be playing and then your
players are going to go back to the community and you're not going to
get Covid-19 --- I don't know who's advising you,'' Giménez said. ``They
allow their players to go back to the community, and then they're going
to reflect their community.''

While the Phillies and the Pirates are allowed to hold games in
Pennsylvania, state health officials denied permission for a third team,
the Toronto Blue Jays, to play in the state. The Blue Jays had hoped to
play home games in Pittsburgh after the Canadian government forbid them
from playing in Toronto, citing the risks of travel to and from the
United States.

The Blue Jays will use Buffalo, where their Class AAA affiliate plays,
as their home base starting Aug. 11, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New
York suggested during his daily briefing on Tuesday that M.L.B. could
stage all its games in the state. M.L.B. decided against holding its
season in a single contained area this season, but Cuomo extended his
offer anyway.

``New York State could host any Major League Baseball game that any team
wants to play,'' Cuomo said. ``New York State has one of the lowest
infection rates in the U.S.''

Jesse McKinley contributed reporting from New York, and Patricia Mazzei
from Miami.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
