Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Rudolph Giuliani's Business
Ties Viewed as Red Flag for Secretary of State Job

\url{https://nyti.ms/2eBEIsy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rudolph-giulianis-business-ties-viewed-as-red-flag-for-secretary-of-state-job}{%
\section{Rudolph Giuliani's Business Ties Viewed as Red Flag for
Secretary of State
Job}\label{rudolph-giulianis-business-ties-viewed-as-red-flag-for-secretary-of-state-job}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/16/us/16trump/16trump-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{Mark
Landler}, \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-lipton}{Eric
Lipton} and \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jo-becker}{Jo
Becker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 15, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Rudolph W. Giuliani, facing a flood of questions about
whether his business dealings should disqualify him from being named
President-elect Donald J. Trump's secretary of state, on Tuesday
defended his lucrative 15 years in the private sector as a credential
for the job.

``I have friends all over the world,'' Mr. Giuliani, the former New York
mayor, said in an interview. ``This is not a new thing for me. When you
become the mayor, you become interested in foreign policy. When I left,
my major work was legal and security around the world.''

As secretary of state, Mr. Giuliani, a loyal, often ferocious backer of
Mr. Trump's candidacy, would make fighting Islamist terrorism the
centerpiece of the incoming administration's foreign policy. He vaulted
to national prominence because of his leadership after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks, and he still views foreign policy through the
prism of that day.

But Mr. Giuliani's business ties are a major red flag. He built a
lucrative consulting and speechmaking career after leaving City Hall.
His firm, Giuliani Partners, has had contracts with the government of
Qatar and the Canadian company that is building the Keystone XL oil
pipeline, and Mr. Giuliani has given paid speeches to a shadowy Iranian
opposition group that until 2012 was on the State Department's list of
foreign terrorist organizations.

In one year --- 2006 --- Mr. Giuliani reported in a
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/05/17/us/politics/17candidates.html}{financial
disclosure report} that he had made 124 speeches, for as much as
\$200,000 each, and had earned a total of \$11.4 million. He often made
extravagant demands in return for agreeing to make a speech, including
that the private plane that flew him to the
\href{http://www.thesmokinggun.com/file/rudy-giuliani-no-free-speech?page=0}{engagement
be a certain size}.

During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly criticized
Hillary Clinton for her speeches to Goldman Sachs, as well as for
contributions Qatar made to the Clinton Foundation, which he claimed
betrayed her commitment to women's and gay rights because of Qatar's
poor record on both.

This week, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky and a member of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, questioned Mr. Giuliani's fitness
for the job, pointing to his list of paid speeches, his work for foreign
governments and his support for the Iraq war. Mr. Trump has long claimed
erroneously that he opposed the war.

``It is worrisome, some of the ties to foreign governments, because that
was a big complaint about many of us with Hillary Clinton and her ties
and the money she received from foreign governments,'' Mr. Paul told CNN
on Tuesday.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/us/politics/donald-trump-administration.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015/donald-trump-administration-1478905372015-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}{%
\subsection{Donald Trump's Cabinet Is Complete. Here's the Full
List.}\label{donald-trumps-cabinet-is-complete-heres-the-full-list}}

A list of appointees and nominees for top posts in the new
administration.

Mr. Giuliani defended his firm's work for Qatar --- which he said
included training the Qatari police and analyzing the security of a
desalinization plant --- because, he said, it was done under the
previous emir, Sheikh
\href{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamad_bin_Khalifa_Al_Thanihttps://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/25/world/middleeast/sheikh-khalifa-bin-hamad-al-thani-former-emir-of-qatar-dies-at-84.html}{Hamad
bin Khalifa al-Thani}, who abdicated in 2013. Mr. Giuliani said he had
consulted the State Department about the contracts and had been told
that Sheikh Khalifa was friendly toward the United States.

Mr. Giuliani said he was one of dozens of prominent Americans who worked
for the Iranian opposition group known as the Mujahedeen Khalq, or the
M.E.K. --- drawing payments at the same time it was on a State
Department list designating it a terrorist organization. He sought to
persuade the State Department to revoke its terrorist listing,
\href{http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2012/09/198443.htm}{which the
Americans did in September 2012}.

``My ties to them are very open,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ``We worked very
hard to get them delisted --- by Hillary Clinton, by the way.''

Another Giuliani client, the energy company TransCanada, applied to
build the Keystone XL pipeline in the United States, and was rejected
last year by President Obama after a recommendation by Secretary of
State John Kerry. If it decided to apply again for permission and Mr.
Giuliani ended up at the State Department, the application would land on
his desk.

Mr. Giuliani did not address that issue directly in the interview,
saying only that his firm had offered security advice to TransCanada,
when it had a partnership to build a natural-gas facility on Long Island
Sound. The proposal was turned down.

``I've done no work on the pipeline,'' he said.

His other clients have included a long list of prominent American
corporations, including Bear Stearns, Uber and CB Richard Ellis, the
real estate giant.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/12/28/us/politics/28oxycontin.html}{Under
contract with Purdue Pharma}, the maker of the often-abused painkiller
OxyContin, Mr. Giuliani used his clout with the Justice Department to
press the federal authorities to offer a less onerous punishment to the
company after allegations that security problems at its warehouses might
have contributed to black market sales.

But it is the lesser-known names that may draw the most scrutiny.

\href{http://www.tgsv.net/}{TriGlobal Strategic Ventures}, a company
that aims to ``assist Western clients in furthering their business
interests in the emerging economies of the former Soviet Union,''
according to its website, is among the more obscure clients.

Records show Mr. Giuliani has
\href{http://www.tgsv.net/management/management-team}{had ties dating to
at least 2004} to TriGlobal, a company that has provided image
consulting to Russian oligarchs and clients with deep Kremlin ties. They
have included Transneft, Russia's state-owned oil pipeline giant, which
is the target of Western sanctions imposed after President Vladimir V.
Putin annexed Crimea and began meddling in Ukraine.

TriGlobal's advisory board includes Ara Abramyan, listed on the
company's website as a ``very close Advisor to the Russian Government's
inner circle including the President and the Prime Minister.'' The
company's founding partners are Andrey Drobyshev, who claims to have
strong relations with regional and municipal governments in Russia, and
Vitaly Pruss, whose website profile says that he has focused on
``international image development and PR for Russian \& Ukrainian
companies'' and that from 2008 to 2011, he worked ``closely with
Giuliani Partners LLC.''

Jeffrey Berman, one of TriGlobal's managing partners, is also vice
president of Berman Enterprises, a family-run company that worked with
Giuliani Partners in 2008 to form a commercial and residential real
estate investment vehicle called the Berman Opportunity Fund. Its
purpose was to target foreign investors looking to take advantage of the
weak dollar through real estate investments in New York and Washington.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/11/11/us/politics/what-trump-wants-to-change.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/11/us/politics/what-trump-wants-to-change-1479009739985/what-trump-wants-to-change-1479009739985-largeHorizontalJumbo.png}

\hypertarget{20-things-donald-trump-said-he-wanted-to-get-rid-of-as-president}{%
\subsection{20 Things Donald Trump Said He Wanted to Get Rid of as
President}\label{20-things-donald-trump-said-he-wanted-to-get-rid-of-as-president}}

Some of the parts of the government that Mr. Trump promised to dismantle
if he was elected.

Few public details are available about Mr. Giuliani's role in the real
estate venture, and Mr. Berman did not return a call for comment. But
some of Mr. Giuliani's work for TriGlobal, which has offices in Moscow
and Kiev, Ukraine, is featured on the company's website.

In 2004, for instance, the company arranged to have Mr. Giuliani come to
Moscow to meet with the foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, as well as
other prominent Russian politicians and business executives. That year,
Mr. Giuliani visited Magnitogorsk, Russia, ``for a series of meetings
with Viktor Rashnikov,'' a Russian billionaire who is the chairman of
the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works.

While Mr. Trump has vowed to bring back jobs in the United States steel
industry, Russia has complained about American tariffs on steel that
hurt companies like Mr. Rashnikov's. TriGlobal also arranged for Mr.
Giuliani to meet with executives from the Russian steel company in the
next year in New York, where they dined at the St. Regis hotel at an
event attended by Bill Clinton.

In 2015, also at the company's behest,
\href{http://www.tgsv.net/news/may-7-2008-\%E2\%80\%93-former-mayor-new-york-rudolph-giuliani-met-vitali-klitschko-nasdaq-studio-times-sq}{Mr.
Giuliani agreed to advise the mayor of Kiev}, Vitali Klitschko, who has
called for more Western support of the Ukrainian government's efforts to
combat Russian separatists.

James A. Thurber, the director of the Center for Congressional and
Presidential Studies at American University, said Mr. Giuliani's
consulting work over the last 15 years should disqualify him from taking
the secretary of state job.

``It creates an immediate conflict of interest with leaders of nations
that he has worked with,'' Mr. Thurber said. ``People asked about
Hillary Clinton and donations to Clinton Foundation. It is very
different than being paid directly by foreign countries to represent
them.''

Mr. Giuliani, in the Tuesday interview, acknowledged that he did not
view the world exactly as Mr. Trump does. He said he regarded Mr. Putin,
whom Mr. Trump has praised, as ``a guy who is pushing us very hard,''
adding: ``I think he needs to be pushed back. I wouldn't want to put
Russia in the category of enemy --- yet.''

``Donald Trump is not going to pick anyone who agrees with him 100
percent,'' Mr. Giuliani said.

He said, however, that he could not think of any disagreements with Mr.
Trump's closest foreign policy adviser, Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, who
shares Mr. Giuliani's belief that Islamist militancy poses an
existential threat. If General Flynn becomes Mr. Trump's national
security adviser, the Trump administration will almost certainly revive
George W. Bush's global war on terrorism.

``In my case, it might have some extra emotion because of Sept. 11,''
Mr. Giuliani said.

In one respect, experts said, Mr. Trump would be different from Mr.
Bush. While Mr. Bush thought a lack of freedom caused jihadist terrorism
to spread, Mr. Trump and Mr. Giuliani believe the fault lies in Islam
itself.

``It is a sea change, and it really changes the terms of the discussion
about what to do about it,'' said William McCants, a senior fellow at
the Brookings Institution and the author of ``The ISIS Apocalypse.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
