Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Cynthia Nixon Enters Race
for New York Governor

\url{https://nyti.ms/2GHA5YO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{cynthia-nixon-enters-race-for-new-york-governor}{%
\section{Cynthia Nixon Enters Race for New York
Governor}\label{cynthia-nixon-enters-race-for-new-york-governor}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/03/20/nyregion/20nixon/20nixon-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 19, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The actress Cynthia Nixon officially jumped into the race for governor
of New York on Monday, setting off what promises to be a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/07/nyregion/cuomo-cynthia-nixon-de-blasio-governor.html}{tumultuous
six months} as she challenges Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in this year's
Democratic primary.

Ms. Nixon, 51, has never before run for elected office and has chosen a
huge undertaking for her first bid: seeking to unseat a two-term
incumbent (and son of a three-term governor) who is sitting atop more
than \$30 million in campaign cash.

The contest will likely become one of the marquee Democratic primaries
in the nation, as Ms. Nixon is widely expected to challenge Mr. Cuomo
from the political left. Her campaign immediately cast Mr. Cuomo as a
``centrist and Albany insider,'' and some of her initial rhetoric on
inequality echoed Senator Bernie Sanders.

``We are now the most unequal state in the entire country, with both
incredible wealth and extreme poverty,'' she said in a video posted on
Twitter announcing her candidacy.

Splashed across the top of \href{https://cynthiafornewyork.com/}{her
website} are more hints of her campaign's coming focus. One of the five
categories --- along with ``Meet Cynthia'' and ``Donate'' --- is a
hashtag: \#CuomosMTA, a term used often by critics of the governor for
New York's faltering subway system run by the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority. Scenes of her riding the subways are also
spliced in her opening ad.

Ms. Nixon, best known for her work in the ``Sex and the City''
franchise, is expected to lean heavily on her star power and ability to
draw media attention in ways that most traditional challengers could
not.

Within 18 minutes of posting her announcement video on Monday, she was
the No. 1 trending topic on Twitter in New York, and then nationwide 20
minutes after that. Her video topped 1 million views on Twitter alone by
the evening.

But her campaign may test the appetite of New Yorkers for a celebrity
leader in the age of President Trump, a deeply unpopular figure here
among Democrats. While Ms. Nixon has been an education activist for many
years her fame could cut both ways in the coming months.

Mr. Cuomo has downplayed the challenge in recent days, even as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/16/nyregion/cynthia-nixon-cuomo-governor.html}{his
political operation has busily sought to burnish his progressive
credentials.}

``I'm not nervous about whoever runs,'' Mr. Cuomo said last week.
``There'll be people who run. That's called elections, and that's
fine.''

If elected, Ms. Nixon would become the first female governor, and the
first openly gay governor, in New York history.

``Our leaders are letting us down,'' she said in the announcement video.

``Something has to change,'' she said in the ad. ``We want our
government to work again, on health care, ending mass incarceration,
fixing our broken subway. We are sick of politicians who care more about
headlines and power than they do about us. It can't just be business as
usual anymore.''

The language on her website was more aggressive. There, she accused Mr.
Cuomo of ``inhumane budgets'' and of ``selling New York off to the
highest bidder.''

Mr. Cuomo begins the race as a heavy front-runner. A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/19/nyregion/cuomo-leads-cynthia-nixon-and-gop-hopefuls-in-2018-re-election-poll.html}{Siena
College poll} on Monday had him leading Ms. Nixon among registered
Democrats 66 percent to 19 percent. But an ugly primary could affect the
governor beyond 2018, should he run for president in 2020.

Jefrey Pollock, a longtime pollster for Mr. Cuomo, was dismissive of Ms.
Nixon, saying that Democratic voters are especially uninterested in
celebrity leaders in the current political climate, and prefer
candidates who can ``counter what they see as the chaos of the
inexperienced.''

``They are looking for proven experience to take the fight to Donald
Trump and to Republicans across the state,'' he said.

Four years ago, Zephyr Teachout, a virtually unknown law professor,
jolted the New York political scene
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/09/10/nyregion/cuomo-and-hochul-win-new-york-primary.html}{when
she scored} more than 34 percent of the vote in her run against Mr.
Cuomo, who largely ignored her. Ms. Teachout has signed on as Ms.
Nixon's campaign treasurer.

Mr. Cuomo has remained a polarizing figure, particularly among
Democratic activists, even as he has increasingly shifted leftward in
recent years, enacting a minimum-wage increase, paid family leave and
free college tuition scholarships for middle-class families.

A powerful figure known for his long memory, Mr. Cuomo is expected to
consolidate much of the institutional support across the state, from
labor unions to business leaders to major donors. (Last week, before Ms.
Nixon officially entered the contest, the New York arm of the National
Organization for Women endorsed the governor.)

For Ms. Nixon, that likely means she must run an insurgent campaign, and
early indications are she will focus on digital organizing. She has
tapped as campaign manager Nicole Aro, a former digital strategist for
the AFL-CIO.

Tim Tagaris, who served as digital fund-raising director for Mr.
Sanders' presidential campaign, has also signed on to help Ms. Nixon,
according to two people familiar with the situation.

In addition, Bill Hyers and Rebecca Katz, two former strategists for
Mayor Bill de Blasio,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/06/nyregion/cynthia-nixon-cuomo-governor-ny.html}{have
been advising Ms. Nixon's campaign}.

Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio have sparred for years, and the mayor is
close to Ms. Nixon, who aggressively endorsed his initial candidacy in
2013. Ms. Nixon's wife, Christine Marinoni, recently stepped down from a
post in the de Blasio administration.

Mr. Cuomo has yet to build out his campaign team, despite his sizable
treasury. His campaign manager from his 2010 and 2014 races, Joseph
Percoco, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/13/nyregion/percoco-corruption-bribery-trial-cuomo-guilty.html}{convicted
on bribery charges last week} in a federal trial.

Still, he has vast resources at his fingertips. Last week, the state
Democratic Party bought \$100,000 in television ads touting Mr. Cuomo's
efforts on gun control. The party later said Mr. Cuomo's campaign
covered the cost.

Born and raised in New York, Ms. Nixon attended Hunter College High
School and Barnard College while breaking into acting. She is best known
for playing Miranda Hobbes on ``Sex and the City,'' a world-weary lawyer
navigating life in late-1990s and early-2000s New York. In a plot twist
that now seems quaint, Miranda horrified her friends by moving from a
Manhattan apartment to a brownstone in Brooklyn.

Now she'll be stumping for votes in both boroughs.

Ms. Nixon mostly narrates her opening two-minute video, but as she rides
a train in the final moments, the conductor can be heard overhead:
``Next stop is Albany.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
