Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Memers are Taking Over TikTok

\href{https://nyti.ms/2WzNYRo}{https://nyti.ms/2WzNYRo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/arts/television/sam-jay-netflix-special.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Sam Jay}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Peruse:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/dining/colombian-empanadas-carlos-gaviria.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Empanadas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/06/arts/design/street-art-nyc-george-floyd.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  N.Y.C. Street Art}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{memers-are-taking-over-tiktok}{%
\section{Memers are Taking Over
TikTok}\label{memers-are-taking-over-tiktok}}

Bombarding a platform known for dance crazes and skits is strategic, and
potentially very lucrative.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/08/fashion/08memers-1/08memers-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/18/reader-center/author-taylor-lorenz/author-taylor-lorenz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/taylor-lorenz}{Taylor Lorenz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Since launching in the U.S. in 2018, TikTok has cemented itself in viral
culture. It has given birth to
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2020\%2F02\%2F13\%2Fstyle\%2Fthe-original-renegade.html}{dance
crazes},
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes.com\%2F2019\%2F10\%2F29\%2Fstyle\%2Fok-boomer.html}{popular
catchphrases} and
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.vox.com\%2Fthe-goods\%2F2020\%2F5\%2F5\%2F21246914\%2Fpancake-cereal-tiktok}{food
trends}. It also jump-started the careers of a generation of young
influencers.

Now, TikTok is being embraced by a new group of internet wizards:
memers.

Multi-platform meme brands like
@\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@daquan}{Daquan},
@\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@betch?}{Betch} and
@\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@memezar}{Memezar} have begun investing
heavily in TikTok in recent months. They've already amassed millions of
followers, surpassing many influencers. Midlevel independent Instagram
memers, many who create memes in specific genres such as gaming, are
also pivoting toward TikTok. And more teens are using the platform to
build meme brands from the ground up.

``I can't overstate just how much TikTok has taken hold in the meme
space,'' said Don Caldwell, the editor in chief of Know Your Meme, a
website that documents memes. ``A lot of people associate TikTok with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/03/style/hype-house-los-angeles-tik-tok.html}{Charli
D'Amelio} and these dance trends. It's actually a platform where all
kinds of viral content can proliferate and thrive.''

Memers act as small media companies that reshare trending videos,
images, and jokes in order to amass large audiences on social platforms,
which they then monetize by selling products or posting ads.

``TikTok was very individual-focused for so long, but people are finding
other ways to aggregate and grow now,'' said Samir Mezrahi, the founder
of @\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@kalesalad}{KaleSalad}, a meme media
brand. ``The amount of growth you get on TikTok from one viral video is
so much compared to other platforms, it compels more people to start
these meme accounts.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/08/fashion/08memers-2/08memers-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Growing fast can involve shady behavior. Meme pages have been notorious
for their scrappy nature and dubious growth hacks on Instagram and
YouTube, and many have begun replicating that on TikTok.

Meme accounts can be found in the comment sections of popular TikTok
stars' videos posting things like ``follow for follow'' or ``follow for
a big reveal.'' Many also grow by starting off as joke pages, designed
to troll users who ask for the handles of women featured in videos.

``Let's say there's a TikTok account that posted a video of a girl
dancing, everyone in the comments is like, `she's so hot, what's her
@?''' said Graham Heavenrich, founder of Cowbelly Studios, a meme
publishing company. ``People will be like, `oh it's this,' and tag one
of those meme pages. Then they click it and it's like it's like,
`psych.'''

There is a point in every social media platform's life when it is forced
to grapple with the community of memers bending the limits of the
platform to go viral. Most platforms have responded by banning them.

Twitter
\href{https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2018/03/twitter-suspends-the-dory-girlposts-common-white-girl.html}{deactivated
a slew of high-profile meme accounts} in 2018. YouTube regularly issues
copyright strikes to accounts that repost videos they don't own.
Instagram, after
\href{https://www.insider.com/instagram-meme-page-purge-suspends-accounts-2019-7}{deactivating
several waves of meme accounts}, attempted to repair its fraught
relationship with the meme community earlier this year by hiring its
first partnerships manager to
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2019/08/instagram-hiring-meme-liaison/595552/}{work
specifically with memers.}

TikTok, however, has shown a willingness to work with the community. ``I
have a rep at TikTok already who helps me with things,'' said Sal Patel,
a meme account administrator. ``They helped me get the username @Betch,
they helped me attach my YouTube channel. The support at Instagram isn't
as good.''

While memers are notorious for failing to give credit, many large meme
brands on TikTok say they work with licensing companies or reach out to
creators to ensure they have the right to reshare content to the app.

They're also using the platform's design to their advantage. While most
meme pages simply post viral videos and mash ups, some intersperse
YouTube style commentary or feature innovative formats. A current trend
in the teenage TikTok meme world is to use the app's profile layout to
create \href{https://www.tiktok.com/@kyliee90}{a giant image out of
several videos.}

``People are recognizing they can use the layout of how TikTok shows
content to make these giant photos and people are getting super-creative
with it,'' Mr. Heavenrich said. Some TikTok users are even creating
\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@kaneyeast}{giant memes across their
grids}.

Joey Ruben, 17, ran several Instagram meme accounts, but since
quarantine began, he has refocused all of his energy on TikTok. He
currently runs @\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@funny}{Funny}, with 1.1
million followers and @\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@gods}{Gods}, with
530,000 followers.

``I find videos off YouTube, Insta and Twitter. I usually download the
video to my camera roll and repost it with credit,'' he said. ``In the
beginning of 2020, that's when I started to see meme content rise on the
app. Now, I've noticed everyone is posting memes. Half of my For You
page is reposted content as opposed to people making their own
content.''

A viral media brand called
@\href{https://www.tiktok.com/@pizzaslime}{PizzaSlime} has amassed more
than 712,000 followers on TikTok posting the way they feel many users
do: sharing a mix of funny videos, images, and sometimes their own
creations.

Image

A whole lot of hoodies: the casual atmosphere of TikTok is catnip to
memers and their mashups.

``I don't necessarily know if it will or won't work, but it reminds me
of the early days of Instagram where everyone is just figuring it out,''
said Nicholas Santiago, a co-founder of PizzaSlime who is known online
as Stove. ``I don't think in the beginning of Instagram we knew that the
influencer was going to be what it's going to be today, and that's what
excites us about TikTok. Right now it's just very free and open.''

Mr. Caldwell of Know Your Meme said that the
\href{https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/coffin-dance-dancing-pallbearers}{dancing
Ghanaian pallbearers meme} that went viral on TikTok in April is a good
example of how the platform is evolving. TikTok users began appending
clips of the dapper pallbearers to create ``fail'' videos. For instance,
a video of a girl sending a text message and getting no response cuts to
the pallbearers. ``That meme had much of its early spread on TikTok by
smaller meme accounts that dedicate themselves to posting remix and joke
videos,'' said Mr. Caldwell. ``This is something the platform has proved
to be good at.''

Most meme accounts on TikTok aren't monetizing yet. But as they continue
to share a deluge of messy, reposted and remixed content, they are
slowly changing the nature of the platform. Especially for younger
users, TikTok is no longer synonymous with dance challenges and skits,
it's where they go to consume
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/style/tiktok-politics-bernie-trump.html}{news,
commentary,} and the most viral videos on the internet. And teenagers
hope to dominate this new landscape.

``There's a new generation of people who see TikTok as an opportunity to
get their start,'' Mr. Ruben said. He considers himself part of that
class and has already started his own company,
\href{https://bullmediagroup.co/}{Bull Media}.

``My goal is to build a large media company across all platforms,'' Mr.
Ruben said. ``We'll not only have our own brand partnership deals, but
we'll work with a bunch of influencers. On TikTok, there's so many
influencers with no idea how to run ads. I want to help young kids
profit. I want them to make money off their platform.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
