Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Investigation Intensifies
Into Top Trump Fund-raiser

\url{https://nyti.ms/2G5pisy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{investigation-intensifies-into-top-trump-fund-raiser}{%
\section{Investigation Intensifies Into Top Trump
Fund-raiser}\label{investigation-intensifies-into-top-trump-fund-raiser}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/08/us/politics/08dc-broidy/merlin_157636071_cd2795f7-7e9d-4700-bf6e-f3168157453c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 8, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Federal prosecutors have intensified their wide-ranging
federal investigation into Elliott Broidy, a top fund-raiser for
President Trump, signaling the Justice Department's continued interest
in questions about foreign influence on the administration.

In recent months, federal authorities have searched Mr. Broidy's
Southern California office and subpoenaed records related to him from a
onetime business partner and from Mr. Trump's inaugural committee. They
have reportedly asked the authorities in Romania for assistance
investigating associates with whom Mr. Broidy worked to win military
intelligence contracts potentially worth as much as \$64 million.

They have also charged four people who worked with Mr. Broidy on plans
to influence the administration, including on behalf of interests in
Asia, the Middle East and Europe. While the charges against three of his
associates were unrelated to their work with Mr. Broidy, most have been
asked about their relationships with him, according to several people
familiar with the investigation.

Taken together, the steps suggest mounting pressure on Mr. Broidy. And
they underscore the legal questions raised by his efforts to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/25/us/politics/elliott-broidy-trump-access-circinus-lobbying.html}{parlay
his access into business advantage} in the frenetic weeks after Mr.
Trump's election, and then to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/us/politics/george-nader-elliott-broidy-uae-saudi-arabia-white-house-influence.html}{influence
the new administration's} policies toward the Middle East, where he was
pursuing contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars.

The scrutiny comes as the Justice Department has stepped up its
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/06/us/politics/fara-task-force-justice-department.html}{enforcement
of foreign lobbying laws} and continues to investigate whether
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/13/us/politics/trump-inauguration-investigation.html}{foreign
money was illegally funneled} into Mr. Trump's super PAC or inaugural
committee.

Mr. Broidy's lawyers have contended that he did not do anything that
would require him to lobby. One of the lawyers, Chris Clark, said in an
email on Monday that he dismissed as ``utterly false'' the idea that his
client used his connections to Mr. Trump to drum up business.

During Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign and transition, few establishment power
brokers had ties to him, creating a vacuum that gave tremendous
influence to the relatively small group of people who could demonstrate
real connections.

While Mr. Broidy had initially supported a succession of Mr. Trump's
Republican presidential rivals, he enthusiastically joined Mr. Trump's
campaign when he emerged as the party's presumptive nominee. After
helping raise money for Mr. Trump's campaign, Mr. Broidy became a
finance vice chairman of Mr. Trump's inaugural committee, helping it
raise a record-shattering \$107 million.

Mr. Broidy, who bought a defense intelligence company called Circinus in
2015, marketed his access to Mr. Trump and his inauguration to
prospective government clients around the world, including some with
unsavory records, according to dozens of interviews and thousands of
documents stolen from Mr. Broidy's accounts and provided to The New York
Times and other news outlets.

Three weeks before the inauguration, Mr. Broidy emailed invitations to
coveted inaugural events to Angolan officials. He also sent them a
version of a proposal under which Angola would pay Circinus as much as
\$64 million for security services over five years. The Angolans
submitted a \$6 million payment to Circinus three days before the
inauguration, correspondence shows, though the company did not collect
any additional funds from Angola, according to people close to Mr.
Broidy.

One of the Angolan officials invited by Mr. Broidy, André de Oliveira
João Sango, who was then serving as the director of external
intelligence,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/26/the-weekly/trump-inauguration-expensive.html}{was
identified by The Times's TV show, ``The Weekly,''} on the red carpet at
a candlelight dinner attended by Mr. Trump the night before the
inauguration. Another of the Angolan invitees, João Lourenço, has since
been elected the country's president.

At an informal inauguration week dinner at the Trump International Hotel
near the White House, Mr. Broidy introduced Mr. Trump to two politicians
from Romania, from which Circinus was seeking contracts valued at more
than \$200 million. One of the Romanian politicians, Liviu Dragnea, was
facing corruption charges that have since led to a three-and-a-half-year
prison sentence.

Mr. Dragnea, Mr. Lourenço and Mr. Sango were among the individuals named
in a subpoena sent to Mr. Trump's inaugural committee in April.

The Embassies of Romania and Angola in Washington did not respond to
requests for comment. But Romanian news outlets
\href{https://www.g4media.ro/exclusiv-vizita-lui-dragnea-si-grindeanu-in-america-la-ceremonia-de-inaugurare-a-presedintelui-trump-in-atentia-anchetatorilor-americani-plus-legatura-dintre-elliot-broidy-si-cristian-burci.html}{have
reported} that the Justice Department has asked Romanian authorities for
assistance in collecting information from Mr. Dragnea and others about
their inauguration week visit to Washington.

Also named in the subpoena was Denis Sassou-Nguesso, the longtime
president of the Republic of Congo**,** who has been accused of funding
a lavish lifestyle with public resources. He was invited by Mr. Broidy
to a handful of inauguration week events, including the candlelight
dinner, while Circinus was pursuing business in that country. The
business never materialized**,** and Mr. Sassou-Nguesso declined the
invitation to the inauguration festivities, according to people close to
Mr. Broidy.

The inaugural committee has responded to the subpoena, a person familiar
with the committee said. The subpoena to the committee was
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/prosecutors-intensify-scrutiny-of-trump-fundraiser-elliott-broidy-11561109521}{first
reported by The Wall Street Journal} and was issued by the United States
attorney's office in Brooklyn.

A person close to Mr. Broidy rejected the suggestion that the subpoena
represented an escalation of or an expansion in the investigation of Mr.
Broidy. The person said that for the past year, Mr. Broidy has been the
subject of an investigation being conducted by the public integrity
section of the Justice Department's Criminal Division, using a grand
jury empaneled in Washington.

The public integrity section late last year issued a subpoena to Lisa
Korbatov, a Los Angeles conservative activist who worked with Mr. Broidy
on his arrangement with the Angolan government, for documents related to
Mr. Broidy, Circinus and other companies, according to a person familiar
with the investigation.

But, highlighting the overlap between the work of different federal
prosecutors, Ms. Korbatov was also named in the Brooklyn prosecutors'
subpoena of the inaugural committee. So, too, were two other Broidy
associates involved in the Angola arrangement --- Dolapo Asiru, a
Nigeria-born California investment banker, and Nickie Lum Davis, a
political fund-raiser who has retained the prominent trial lawyer Abbe
D. Lowell to represent her.

Ms. Davis and Mr. Broidy have also attracted scrutiny in a related
matter being handled by the Justice Department's public integrity
section --- the investigation into an alleged scheme to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/30/us/politics/broidy-trump-foreign-money.html}{launder
millions of dollars into the country} to help a flamboyant Malaysian
financier known as Jho Low end a Justice Department investigation.

Another figure in that investigation, the entertainer and businessman
Pras Michel, was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/10/us/pras-michel-jho-low-campaign-finance.html}{charged
in May} with conspiring to funnel millions of dollars of Mr. Low's money
into the 2012 presidential election. Mr. Michel, a former member of the
Fugees, a defunct hip-hop group, has pleaded not guilty. He has been
asked by prosecutors for information on what Mr. Broidy did to help the
financier, according to a person familiar with the investigation.

Mr. Broidy's lawyers have said he never lobbied the Trump administration
to end the investigation into the Malaysian fund.

Two other associates of Mr. Broidy's have cooperated with prosecutors
after being caught up in the investigation of the special counsel,
Robert S. Mueller III, into Russian interference in the 2016
presidential election.

Rick Gates, who was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/24/us/politics/rick-gates-elliott-broidy-trump-payments.html}{paid
at least \$125,000 by Mr. Broidy} for advice on navigating the Trump
administration,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/15/us/politics/rick-gates-cooperation-sentencing-delay.html}{pleaded
guilty} to conspiracy and lying to the F.B.I. And George Nader, a
political adviser to the de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/21/us/politics/george-nader-elliott-broidy-uae-saudi-arabia-white-house-influence.html}{helped
Mr. Broidy's company} win contracts worth at least \$200 million with
the oil-rich gulf nation,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/us/politics/george-nader-special-counsel-mueller-cooperating-seychelles.html}{cooperated
with Mr. Mueller's team} before being
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/03/us/politics/george-nader-child-pornography-arrest.html}{arrested
last month} on child pornography charges.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
