Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Billionaire Tom Steyer May
Enter the 2020 Field as Rep. Eric Swalwell Bows Out

\url{https://nyti.ms/2XyAfO6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{billionaire-tom-steyer-may-enter-the-2020-field-as-rep-eric-swalwell-bows-out}{%
\section{Billionaire Tom Steyer May Enter the 2020 Field as Rep. Eric
Swalwell Bows
Out}\label{billionaire-tom-steyer-may-enter-the-2020-field-as-rep-eric-swalwell-bows-out}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/08/us/politics/08Steyer-swalwell/merlin_157678521_bfd18529-49e1-492f-ad4f-3f04b7ad52d4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Reid J. Epstein,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-stevens}{Matt Stevens}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 8, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Tom Steyer, the California billionaire who toyed with the idea of a
Democratic presidential campaign before
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/09/us/politics/tom-steyer-trump-2020.html}{announcing
in January that he would not run}, has changed his mind and intends to
enter the 2020 contest on Tuesday, according to multiple people who have
been told of his plans.

Word of a possible Steyer candidacy was a surprise to the Democratic
political world, which has counted on the 62-year-old's largess to
finance super PACs in recent years, and has grown used to his plotting
and then discarding his own ambitions for elected office.

The news that Mr. Steyer is again entertaining entering the race himself
came as a fellow northern Californian, Representative Eric Swalwell,
said that he was ending his bid for the Democratic nomination for
president, becoming the first candidate to do so since the field
expanded to historically large proportions. Mr. Swalwell, 38, made the
announcement Monday at an afternoon news conference at his campaign
headquarters in Dublin, Calif., just three months after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/08/us/politics/eric-swalwell-president-2020.html}{he
declared his candidacy in April}.

``We have to be honest about our own candidacy and viability,'' he said.
``Today ends our presidential campaign.''

''I have no regrets,'' he added later. ``I'm excited about what we've
done.''

Mr. Swalwell had been scheduled to visit New Hampshire and attend
several events there on July 3 and 4, but a campaign spokeswoman told
The Times last week that he had canceled his plans and instead spent the
holiday with family.

Ending his presidential campaign early will allow Mr. Swalwell to shift
his attention to seeking a fifth term in the House representing Northern
California's East Bay. He had
\href{https://www.sfchronicle.com/politics/article/Eric-Swalwell-Running-for-president-if-I-m-14017678.php}{previously
hinted} that he would assess his standing in the presidential primary in
December --- California's registration deadline to run for Congress ---
and make a decision about a House run at that time. But during his news
conference Monday, he confirmed that he would seek re-election.

{[}\emph{The On Politics newsletter looks at}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/08/us/politics/on-politics-eric-swalwell.html}{\emph{which
2020 candidates may be eyeing other races}}\emph{.}{]}

Mr. Steyer, on the other hand, has no other clear electoral prospects.
Though he has repeatedly toyed with running for high office, including
the governorship of California and a Senate seat there, this moment
appears to be all about entering the Democratic primary field.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In recent weeks he instructed advisers to conduct polling and other
research to gauge his prospects, people briefed on his preparations
said. He has designated a longtime aide, Heather Hargreaves, as his
campaign manager-in-waiting, and recorded a television ad that could air
in the early voting states in the event he becomes a candidate. That
launch, associates said, could happen as soon as this week.

Mr. Steyer hasn't announced a
\href{https://www.netrootsnation.org/keynotes/}{political calendar, but
Netroots Nation}, the annual conference for the party's left wing, said
he would appear at its opening keynote address on Thursday in
Philadelphia.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/20/us/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187/2020-presidential-candidates-promo-1548014688187-articleLarge-v68.png}

\hypertarget{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}{%
\subsection{Who's Running for President in
2020?}\label{whos-running-for-president-in-2020}}

The field of Democratic presidential candidates has been historically
large, but all have dropped out except Joe Biden, the presumptive
Democratic nominee to challenge President Trump.

Also advising Mr. Steyer is Doug Rubin, a Massachusetts-based strategist
who counseled Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor, on a
potential 2020 campaign before Mr. Patrick announced he would not run.
Neither adviser would comment on Mr. Steyer's plans or their own roles.

There is considerable skepticism across the Democratic Party about Mr.
Steyer's seriousness about the presidential race, and his associates
warn not to count him as a candidate until his filing papers are signed
and submitted.

Since breaking onto the political scene by backing several high-profile
statewide initiatives in California in 2010, Mr. Steyer has engaged in a
series of heavily funded, attention-grabbing crusades, most recently
spending tens of millions of dollars to promote a campaign demanding
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/23/us/politics/impeach-trump-democrats-tom-steyer.html}{President
Trump's impeachment}. That effort has flagged over the past few months,
frustrating Mr. Steyer, according to people familiar with his thoughts.
He has been among the most prolific funders of Democratic groups, though
party leaders and strategists have grumbled frequently about his
penchant for inserting his own image into television ads.

One ad for Need to Impeach, Mr. Steyer's organization dedicated to
removing Mr. Trump, featured Mr. Steyer standing in Times Square in
front of one of his own electronic billboards, discussing his push to
impeach the president.

In January, he trekked to Iowa to make a highly promoted political
announcement, only to reveal upon arriving that he would not run.

That decision also came at a moment of personal turbulence for Mr.
Steyer: In November, he told
\href{https://www.vogue.com/article/tom-steyer-interview-impeaching-donald-trump?verso=true}{Vogue}
that he and his wife of 32 years, Kat Taylor, were ``going to try living
apart.''

Over the years, Mr. Steyer has rotated through a formidable cast of
political consultants and advisers, hiring some of the biggest names in
Democratic politics and then discarding them --- with varying degrees of
cordiality --- sometimes in a matter of months. He has lost a number of
staffers in recent months to other presidential campaigns, particularly
those of Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington and former Representative Beto
O'Rourke of Texas. There are significant gaps in the political operation
that surrounds him now.

Should he run, Mr. Steyer would likely face a far more searching
examination of his record than he has to date, including his background
as a hedge fund manager who invested heavily in fossil fuels. Several
populist candidates, including Senators Elizabeth Warren of
Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont, have consistently signaled
that they would respond aggressively to any billionaire who entered the
race and sought to finance a candidacy with a personal fortune.

Mr. Steyer could use that vast personal wealth, estimated by Forbes
magazine at \$1.6 billion, to fund a television advertising campaign
beyond the reach of anyone else in the field. His political groups spent
more backing Democratic candidates in 2018 than any other individual
except former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.

Despite those personal funds, Mr. Steyer may struggle to qualify for the
Democratic Party's next round of debates. His name has not been included
in qualifying polls and it is highly unlikely he could attract 65,000
donors by July 16, the deadline to do so for the next set of debates
July 30 and July 31.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/08/us/politics/00Steyer/merlin_148963581_41d0f77c-f833-4f0a-996c-aecd0ec66016-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Swalwell's brief candidacy illustrated the limits of simply making
the debates. Though he qualified for and participated in the first
Democratic debates in June, Mr. Swalwell barely registered in the polls,
earning 1 percent support just three times.

A member of the House Intelligence and Judiciary Committees, Mr.
Swalwell had sought to gain a following by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/eric-swalwell-gun-control.html}{focusing
his campaign around gun control and gun safety}. His campaign
\href{https://ericswalwell.com/endgunviolence/}{released an eight-part
plan focused on the issue} in June that included a call for a mandatory
nationwide buyback program for assault weapons.

On Monday in a statement he said bringing attention to the issue of gun
violence had been his priority and said he was proud of his contribution
to the Democratic policy agenda.

But neither his buyback plan, nor
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/06/27/us/politics/democratic-debate-live.html}{verbal
jabs at former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Mayor Pete
Buttigieg during the June debate}, gave him significant traction.

Senator Kamala Harris of California, another presidential contender,
\href{https://twitter.com/KamalaHarris/status/1148327721690370048}{called}
Mr. Swalwell a ``great fighter,'' adding ``we are a stronger nation
because of your work to protect our children and our communities from
gun violence.''

It was not immediately clear what effect, if any, Mr. Swalwell's
departure or Mr. Steyer's arrival would have on other candidates in what
may still be a crowded 24-person field.

\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2019/07/02/hickenlooper-2020-campaign-1395051}{Politico
reported last week} that several campaign staff members for former Gov.
John Hickenlooper of Colorado had left or were departing, and that he
had drawn the support of only about 13,000 donors. Mr. Hickenlooper
acknowledged the turmoil on Sunday, saying ``the vast majority of the
problem with the campaign was me.'' But he also pledged to stay in the
race and become a better candidate, according to
\href{https://apnews.com/610a9549881a4aec9acb011c6560694b}{The
Associated Press}.

But Mr. Hickenlooper is far from the only candidate who may now be
confronting hard questions about campaign viability. Second quarter
fund-raising reports are due to the Federal Election Commission next
week, and those disclosures will make it known which candidates are
struggling financially.

In the meantime, the Democratic National Committee has
\href{https://democrats.org/press/third-debate/}{toughened debate
qualification standards} such that more than half the remaining field is
likely to be left out of the third debate in September.

With his announcement on Monday, Mr. Swalwell became the first candidate
to withdraw from the field since Richard Ojeda, a former state senator
in West Virginia,
\href{https://www.facebook.com/RichardOjeda2020/posts/today-i-want-to-thank-from-the-bottom-of-my-heart-all-the-people-who-have-suppor/2329884223911515/}{suspended
his short-lived campaign in late January}. At that time, only a handful
of candidates had officially entered the race.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
