Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}`Hey, You Free on Friday for
a Meeting and a Bank Heist?'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ECKwQC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Great Read

\hypertarget{hey-you-free-on-friday-for-a-meeting-and-a-bank-heist}{%
\section{`Hey, You Free on Friday for a Meeting and a Bank
Heist?'}\label{hey-you-free-on-friday-for-a-meeting-and-a-bank-heist}}

Eager for an alternative to Zoom, executives are getting together in
video games, to bond, brainstorm or rampage.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/autossell/31videogame-meetings-vid-still/31videogame-meetings-vid-still-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-segal}{David Segal}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The ask-nice approach had not worked. Lewis Smithingham, an advertising
executive in Brooklyn, was trying to land a virtual meeting with an
analyst at an investment management firm, who he hoped would be both a
source of potential clients and information. Dates were agreed to and
then postponed, rescheduled and rescheduled again. So Mr. Smithingham
had an idea. He would end the brush-offs by emailing a cheeky
invitation:

``Let's go rob a bank in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/17/arts/video-games/grand-theft-auto-v-is-a-return-to-the-comedy-of-violence.html}{Grand
Theft Auto}.''

Soon, Mr. Smithingham and the analyst were tearing around a fictional
version of Los Angeles, submachine guns in hand, in one of the world's
most popular and raucous multiplayer video games. The analyst lacked the
skills for a bank heist, but the two did some carjacking, ran over some
unlucky pedestrians, eluded some cops, drove off a cliff and died a few
times.

``He isn't a great gamer, so I had to sort of be the point person for
all of the shooting,'' said Mr. Smithingham, a director at MediaMonks,
which is based in the Netherlands. ``But now we text each other
regularly, and when I get on a call with this guy, I'll be like, `You
remember that time we ran from the cops and crashed into a highway
divider?'''

With
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/20/smarter-living/coronavirus-zoom-facetime-fatigue.html}{Zoom
call fatigue} setting in and boozy lunches out of the question during
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{the coronavirus
pandemic}, housebound executives are finding new ways to meet and bond
in video games. The goal is to break up a day that is crammed with
get-togethers that generally look, sound and feel identical. And for
people like Mr. Smithingham, an outing in virtual space is a chance to
form memories with people he has never met, which is a crucial part of
developing relationships, business and otherwise.

``It's my golf,'' he said. Unlike golf, video games come with social
distancing built in. It is back slapping without the slapping or the
back, ideal during a pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/02/business/00VideoGameMeetings-02/merlin_174635346_ceafb81d-6f36-4c83-b078-e16499b2116d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Nobody knows how many executives are meeting in video games, including
game publishers, but examples are popping up on Twitter and other social
media platforms. In May, an author and artist in Britain named
\href{https://twitter.com/vivschwarz/status/1261575801008504832}{Viviane
Schwarz wrote a series of tweets} about meetings she was holding with an
editorial team on Red Dead Redemption 2, a Western-themed game set in
the American frontier of 1899. The setting has upsides, she explained,
including the mountain wilderness landscapes and a campfire the team can
sit around while wolves howl in the night.

But there are complications. A posse might interrupt, looking for a
gunfight, and a character named JB Cripps often hovers around playing
the mouth harp. For some reason, he cannot be shot dead. Then there are
the technical glitches.

``Sometimes the meeting table doesn't exist for everyone, and sitting on
the ground is the same button as attempting to strangle the nearest
person,''
\href{https://twitter.com/vivschwarz/status/1261577497105358848}{Ms.
Schwarz tweeted} in May.
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/business/zoom-shirt.html}{Still
beats zoom.}''

The idea of holding business meetings in a virtual world enjoyed a
certain vogue about a decade ago. More than 1,400 organizations had a
presence on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/19/technology/19virtual.html}{Second
Life, an online realm}with everything an avatar would need, including
auditoriums and beer. There are still plenty of businesses, nonprofit
organizations and universities operating in Second Life, says Ebbe
Altberg, the chief executive of Linden Lab, the San Francisco-based
creator of the world. But hundreds of companies have left, including
IBM, Coca-Cola and Reuters, which had a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/16/technology/16reuters.html}{Second
Life bureau}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/autossell/29videogamemeetings-vid-still/29videogamemeetings-vid-still-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Today's in-game pioneers have scaled-back ambitions. Erik Heisholt, the
founder of Heisholt Inc., a marketing firm in Oslo, was simply looking
for a novel setting when, in 2016, he built an office in Minecraft.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{31h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{34h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{41h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

That office was deleted last year, because of inactivity, but as the
pandemic set in, he built a new one. In mid-July, he offered a tour of
the premises to this reporter, who had never before set
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/17/magazine/the-minecraft-generation.html}{virtual
foot in Minecraft, a game} with more than 125 million monthly users. It
was a memorably bizarre way to spend 90 minutes.

``Hello and welcome to the office!'' Mr. Heisholt said. Actually, it was
the online avatar of his tech guru, Martin Bruras, and Mr. Heisholt was
not speaking aloud. Communication in Minecraft happens via text, which
adds to the sense that life here unfolds at half speed, at least for a
neophyte trying to figure out simple tasks, like how to walk through a
door. When Mr. Heisholt ``spoke'' it was via Mr. Bruras, who was
essentially taking dictation.

``Come inside before the monsters come,'' Mr. Heisholt wrote.

Image

Erik Heisholt, the owner of a marketing firm in Oslo, said his Minecraft
office allowed for a different type of thinking compared with his
physical office. ``We're in a totally different mind-set in here,'' he
said.Credit...Alejandro Villanueva for The New York Times

Hold on. Monsters?

It turns out that when night falls in Minecraft, which happens three
times every hour, an assortment of deadly skeletons, witches and zombies
roam the world. Happily, like polite dinner guests, they do not barge
into buildings, so we were undisturbed once inside the office, other
than the sound of snarls coming from just beyond walls.

``How do you get any work done?'' I typed.

``We can't work if we get eaten and killed,'' Mr. Heisholt wrote. ``We
sit at our computers and discuss, just like in the real world.''

The first Heisholt Inc. office in Minecraft was built four years ago,
soon after the company conceived the first concert in the game, for an
annual tech festival in Norway called the Gathering. The show was a
virtual and simultaneous version of a live performance by the electronic
duo AlunaGeorge. The motion of the musicians was mirrored, as closely as
possible, by the blocky, Lego-like characters that populate the game.
About 3,000 viewers were expected.

``More than 100,000 showed up, and it would have been six times more if
the servers had not crashed,'' said Mr. Heisholt in an offline phone
interview. ``A lot of the meetings about the concert and about the
promotional campaign for the concert took place in the game. We would
meet with gamers there, and they ended up putting up posters for the
show inside their buildings and houses in the game.''

Inspired by that experience, Heisholt Inc. built an office in Minecraft,
which Mr. Heisholt described as far posher than any the company could
afford in the real world. A
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oV0DIWfOSCU\&feature=youtu.be}{video
of it shows what looks like a} sleek, seaside hotel in the Brutalist
style, with several floors and swimming pools, along with cows, sheep
and a company dog named Palecod.

Image

The avatar of Mr. Heisholt's tech guru, through whom he communicates
while in meetings at the Oslo-based company's Minecraft
office.Credit...Erik Heisholt

The staff members began to have regular meetings at the office, then
invited clients for business pitches and brainstorming. It was in the
game that the company conferred with representatives of the World
Wildlife Fund to discuss a campaign to save Norway's wolves, which a
group of farmers wanted to start hunting. Heisholt Inc.
\href{https://www.facebook.com/heisholtas/videos/1740098259647029/}{created
a video inside Minecraft} that showed a few dozen wolves in a concrete
pen getting mowed down by an unseen character with a crossbow.

``Wolves in Norway are listed as critically endangered'' read a chyron
toward the end of the 50-second spot. Then Crossbow Guy shot the last
wolf. (The wolf fight in Norway is continuing.)

As the company grew, and brought in bigger clients, it stopped visiting
the Minecraft office, which is why it, and Palecod, vanished. The new
space looks like a starchitect's take on an oversized sauna. There are a
lot of tiered, dark-wood benches, a bunch of torches on the wall and
pixelated artwork of Bruce Lee about to punch a giant hand. As daylight
broke during the tour, we walked to the second-floor balcony and gaped
at what looked like a verdant prairie with a lot of lakes. A gold
merchant idled outside with two llamas. The llamas bleated and stared up
at us.

Minecraft is, in part, a ``sandbox'' game, which means you can choose to
do nothing at all, other than avoid death by monster. Before we visited
the office's main conference room, Mr. Heisholt offered some lunch.

``I'll just have to kill a chicken, be back in a second,'' he wrote. The
meal looked like a plucked chicken carcass. Then he answered questions
about how this office held advantages over his physical one in Oslo.

``Having a brainstorm session here forces you to think,'' he wrote,
holding what he later explained was a piece of rotten meat left by a
monster. ``To think different. We're in a totally different mind-set in
here. Especially if we talk to random players. They sometimes give you
absurd answers that can lead your thinking in totally unexpected
directions.''

Image

Llamas showed up during the reporter's tour of an office in
Minecraft.Credit...David Segal

He cited ideas gleaned from passers-by in Minecraft who had suggestions
about the design of the Viking ship where AlunaGeorge performed the
virtual concert. Mostly, though, it seems as though Mr. Heisholt enjoys
a dose of anarchy in his daily routine.

``Working in Minecraft can be dangerous and nerve-racking,'' he later
wrote in an email. He urges employees to stay undevoured, he said, but
also sees the mortal threats as a way to introduce an invigorating
element of risk that heightens the senses.

As the tour wound down, he walked outside to take a closer look at the
llamas, one of which spat at him. Then night set in. The sound of
sinister hissing and grunts rose, sending us scrambling toward the
office door, though not quickly enough. Zombies killed us both.

``You died!'' the game exulted. There was an option to ``respawn'' and
re-enter the game, but Mr. Heisholt was late for a rehearsal with his
band in real-world Oslo.

The experience underscored that it would be hard to zone out in
Minecraft. It might be just as hard to focus on work, at least for
anyone who lacks proficiency. Ben Decker, the head of game services
marketing at Microsoft, says he often checks in with fellow employees
while pairing up with them in a game called Destiny. Each player is an
armed protector of Earth's last safe city, which sounds like a job that
would require total attention.

``But when you play a game a lot, it's sort of like gardening,'' he
said. ``It becomes part of your daily routine, and there's a certain
rhythm to it.''

Mr. Decker spends most days in the basement of his home in Seattle,
which has led him to rediscover Sea of Thieves, a pirate-themed game
which, naturally, takes place on the ocean. He holds a regular business
meeting in the game with an executive from Discord, a digital
distribution platform, and the two catch up aboard a galleon in what
looks like the Caribbean.

``You can kind of hear the breeze and the birds, and the animation of
the water is just beautiful,'' he said. ``The sailing mechanism is close
enough to reality that you kind of feel like you're rolling across the
waves.''

For Mr. Smithingham, of MediaMonks, different games offer advantages for
different clients. Gunplay and mayhem is not always the right fit. He is
a fan of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/07/arts/animal-crossing-covid-coronavirus-popularity-millennials.html}{Animal
Crossing: New Horizons}, a new version of a long-popular Nintendo game,
which was released in March. It deposits players on cartoonishly
colorful private islands where they can decorate their homes, trim
trees, catch fish, chase critters or visit others and chill out.

Image

Animal Crossing: New Horizons offers a less hectic meeting environment
than games like Grand Theft Auto.~Credit...Lewis Smithingham

It also facilitates a singular kind of gift giving, the online version
of picking up a lunch check. Goods such as flowers, furniture and bait
for fishing can be acquired, typically through time-consuming tasks. If
you do not have time, however, there are alternatives.

``I basically went on eBay and spent \$10 buying 400 fish bait from
somebody in Japan,'' he said, referring to one of Animal Crossing's most
popular staples. ``Three minutes later, I watched the seller come to my
island with, like, a mask on and dropped off the fish bait. I think he
was trying to be creepy. But the first time I met this one client, I
gave her 100 fish bait, which is a crazy extravagant gift.''

A screenshot of a recent meeting with this client shows Mr. Smithingham
fishing with the client. He appears to be a perfectly coifed young man
in a matching black shirt and pants, sporting a spiffy pair of
red-and-white sneakers --- which gets to another reason that now, more
than ever, he prefers video games to video chats.

``My production value is now considerably better in Animal Crossing than
it is on Zoom,'' he said. ``My wife is cutting my hair. And she's a
nurse, not a barber.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
