Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Ken Cuccinelli Emerges as
Public Face, and Irritant, of Homeland Security

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MVq0gX}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ken-cuccinelli-emerges-as-public-face-and-irritant-of-homeland-security}{%
\section{Ken Cuccinelli Emerges as Public Face, and Irritant, of
Homeland
Security}\label{ken-cuccinelli-emerges-as-public-face-and-irritant-of-homeland-security}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/us/politics/04dc-cuccinelli1/merlin_159196257_8ecd9cc0-43c9-4605-896b-d922f73655f8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 5, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- As Donald J. Trump moved to wrap up his unlikely
Republican nomination for the presidency, a senior adviser to Senator
Ted Cruz laced into the front-runner in March 2016, in a last-ditch
effort to swing the contest to Mr. Cruz, the more traditionally
conservative candidate.

The target? Mr. Trump's soft stand on immigrant workers.

``He uses the immigrants in ways that advantage him monetarily but
disadvantage American citizens,'' Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II said of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/26/us/politics/donald-trump-taps-foreign-work-force-for-his-florida-club.html}{Mr.
Trump's hiring of temporary foreign employees for Trump resorts} from
Florida to New Jersey. ``He says it's wrong,'' Mr. Cuccinelli told a
radio interviewer, ``but he still does it.''

Three years later, the president and Mr. Cuccinelli have put aside their
differences to make common cause in a pursuit of the fiercest
anti-immigration agenda in generations. As the acting director of United
States Citizenship and Immigration Services, Mr. Cuccinelli now oversees
legal immigration, including the visa program that he once criticized
and Mr. Trump made rich use of in staffing resorts such as Mar-a-Lago in
Florida and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/06/us/trump-bedminster-golf-undocumented-workers.html}{Trump
National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J.}

From that seemingly narrow perch, he has roiled the Department of
Homeland Security, peppering other senior officials with pointed email
demands, encroaching on Immigration and Customs Enforcement operations
and generally appointing himself spokesman for all things immigration in
the Trump administration.

In Mr. Cuccinelli, Mr. Trump has found someone to his right on
immigration but perfectly in line with his street-fighting skills.

``He has many critics,'' said L. Preston Bryant, a Republican who served
in the Virginia House of Delegates when Mr. Cuccinelli was a state
senator, ``but they underestimate Ken Cuccinelli at their own peril.''

Mr. Cuccinelli, a descendant of Italian immigrants who sought sanctuary
at Ellis Island, was recruited initially as the administration's
immigration czar, with the broadest possible portfolio. Within days,
though, he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/24/us/politics/kenneth-cuccinelli-l-francis-cissna.html}{redirected
to head Citizenship and Immigration Services}. The more limited job
description has not hindered Mr. Cuccinelli. If
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/17/us/politics/stephen-miller-immigration-trump.html}{the
White House adviser Stephen Miller} is the architect of Mr. Trump's
effort to restrict both legal and illegal immigration, Mr. Cuccinelli
has emerged as its public face.

He has aggressively pushed immigration policies with little concern for
legal constraints. His tendency to make light of sensitive policies has
incensed senior homeland security officials, including the acting
secretary, Kevin K. McAleenan, and the acting director of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, Matthew T. Albence, according to administration
officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the rising
tension among officials.

Signature Cuccinelli initiatives include efforts to speed up asylum
screenings, to make it harder for children of some active service
members born abroad
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/29/us/politics/citizenship-service-members.html}{to
obtain citizenship} and to force immigrants facing life-threatening
health crises
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/29/us/immigrant-medical-treatment-deferred-action.html}{to
return to their home countries} (the administration recently announced
that it would reconsider the last decision).

His agency also put in place a rule that would
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/14/us/immigration-public-charge-welfare.html}{deny
legal status to immigrants} deemed likely to use government benefit
programs. A day after announcing that ``public charge'' policy, Mr.
Cuccinelli revised the iconic sonnet on the Statue of Liberty by saying
the United States would welcome those ``who can stand on their own two
feet.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/us/politics/04dc-cuccinelli2/merlin_159683040_1f5150ea-cb74-4701-b222-7b3b59950a84-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Born in Edison, N.J., Mr. Cuccinelli, 51, was raised in Virginia, where
he assumed the nickname ``Cooch.'' He graduated from the University of
Virginia with an engineering degree and from George Mason with a law
degree.

From the start, his political career --- he was a state senator from
2002 to 2010 before becoming Virginia's attorney general --- was marked
by his hard-line stand on immigration at a time when his home base,
extending to parts of Fairfax County in the far suburbs of Washington,
was divided by an influx of first-generation Americans. He proposed
legislation that would allow employers to fire employees who did not
speak English, advocated denying citizenship to the American-born
children of undocumented immigrants and provoked backlash as attorney
general when he referred to immigration policy while discussing killing
rats in Washington.

He also displayed the acumen to carry out wide-reaching, complex policy.

A devout Catholic, Mr. Cuccinelli made his name nationally more as a
social conservative than as an immigration hard-liner. He defended a
Virginia law that criminalized sodomy, advocated prohibiting Virginia
state universities from protecting same-sex couples from discrimination
and investigated the University of Virginia to obtain documents related
to the work of a scientist who studied climate change, accusing the
professor of fraud. He issued edited pins of the state seal for his
staff to wear with the exposed breast of a Roman goddess covered up.

``He certainly shares Trump's desire for cultural conflict and a
relishing of cultural conflict that is very uncommon for most Virginia
Republicans,'' said Brennan Bilberry, a former spokesman for Terry
McAuliffe, who defeated Mr. Cuccinelli in the 2013 Virginia governor's
race.

But long before Mr. Trump was galvanizing his political base with
anti-immigrant language, Mr. Cuccinelli used a similar approach to
appeal to white voters in a rapidly changing Northern Virginia.

His district was ``beginning to see early in his term a substantial
influx from people outside who looked different,'' said Mark J. Rozell,
the dean of the Schar School of Policy and Government at George Mason
University in Virginia. ``So there was some populist appeal to his
taking a very hard immigration stance.

``But,'' Mr. Rozell added, ``with Cuccinelli, for good or bad, it has
always seemed that his positions came out of a certain core of his
convictions.''

Mr. Cuccinelli's allies say his positions are rooted in the belief that
a legal immigration system is crucial to maintaining a functioning
society. But Mr. Cuccinelli tends to tailor his views based on whether
the legal immigrants in question are fleeing desperation south of the
border or, like his ancestors, escaping Europe.

When a photograph of a drowned migrant father and daughter on the banks
of the Rio Grande
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/25/us/father-daughter-border-drowning-picture-mexico.html}{went
viral in June}, Mr. Cuccinelli said the father was to blame. When he was
pressed on CNN about his edit of the Statue of Liberty poem, he said
Emma Lazarus's famous verses referred to ``people coming from Europe
where they had class-based societies.''

Mr. Cuccinelli did not respond to requests to be interviewed, but a
Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman, Jessica Collins, said
Mr. Cuccinelli viewed the United States as a nation of immigrants;
maintaining that tradition ``requires immigrants to come here legally.''
Ms. Collins said one of the first bills Mr. Cuccinelli passed as a state
senator extended legal protections to immigrants in the country legally
and illegally who had their personal documents withheld from them by the
authorities.

But current and former Virginia lawmakers pointed to actions of a
different type taken by Mr. Cuccinelli, such as a 2010 legal opinion
that allowed Virginia law enforcement officials to check the immigration
status of anyone they stopped. When Mr. Cuccinelli called into a radio
station in 2012 to criticize a local ordinance that he said protected
rats from being killed in Washington, he segued into immigration
enforcement.

Image

Mr. Cucinelli has aggressively pushed immigration policies with little
concern for legal constraints.Credit...Drew Angerer for The New York
Times

The law ``is worse than our immigration policy --- you can't break up
rat families,'' he pivoted, apparently advocating such separations. ``Or
raccoons or all the rest, and you can't even kill them. It's
unbelievable.''

Claire G. Gastañaga, the executive director of the American Civil
Liberties Union of Virginia, sued Mr. Cuccinelli repeatedly when he was
the state's attorney general, but she also wrote columns with him and
praised his willingness to protect privacy rights, one of a handful of
issues in which Mr. Cuccinelli's populism can cross party lines.

``There are areas where his conservative approach to government is
protective to individual rights,'' Ms. Gastañaga said, ``but not if
you're an immigrant.''

Since joining Citizenship and Immigration Services, Mr. Cuccinelli has
brandished the sharp elbows he honed in Richmond. Senior officials in
the Department of Homeland Security have watched angrily as Mr.
Cuccinelli spoke about ICE raids on television and tweeted a photograph
of an active crime scene at an ICE office in San Antonio without
consulting top officials at the enforcement agency, administration
officials said.

Mr. Cuccinelli has emailed Mr. Albence, the acting director of ICE, and
other officials at the agency to demand that it turn over authority over
a student visa program, which Mr. Cuccinelli wants to limit in scope,
according to administration officials. Mr. Albence pushed back against
the combative emails, the officials said, and Mr. McAleenan and some
White House officials have told Mr. Cuccinelli to tone it down.

``That's not how it's going to work, my friend,'' Mr. Cuccinelli said in
a reply to the pushback from ICE officials, according to an
administration official.

His performance has pleased immigration restrictionists outside the
administration, a key constituency of Mr. Trump's. ``I haven't had any
little birdies tell me it's a disaster or anything like that'' at the
agency, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the hard-line
Center for Immigration Studies.

Ms. Collins, the Citizenship and Immigration Services spokeswoman,
disputed that Mr. Cuccinelli had demanded anything from officials and
said he had ``gone out of his way to be of assistance to them in a
variety of ways.''

But Mr. Cuccinelli is unlikely to be confirmed as the permanent director
because of his tumultuous relationship with the Senate majority leader,
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Two years ago Mr. Cuccinelli signed a
letter drafted by conservative activists calling for Mr. McConnell to
step down. As president of the Senate Conservatives Fund, he backed
hard-line conservatives against more mainstream Republicans, even siding
with Matt Bevin, Kentucky's current governor, in his failed 2014 primary
campaign against Mr. McConnell. And Mr. McConnell has let the White
House know of his displeasure with Mr. Cuccinelli's appointment.

Mr. Cuccinelli's emergence as the unofficial homeland security
spokesman, when each agency overseeing immigration policy is led by an
acting chief, has left the rank and file wondering who is in charge,
administration officials said.

``Is Kevin McAleenan in charge of homeland security; is he acting
secretary?'' asked David Lapan, a former press secretary for the cabinet
department. ``Why is Cuccinelli out there talking about all these
topics? I'm sure people would say that's because that's what the
president wants, but that's not necessarily the best thing for the
Department of Homeland Security.''

A senior White House official responded to such questions unbidden,
emphasizing that those closest to Mr. Trump believe Mr. Cuccinelli is
more aligned with the president on immigration than his peers in the
sprawling department, including Mr. McAleenan.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
