Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Midterm Election Results
Leave a Divided Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D6npLe}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{midterm-election-results-leave-a-divided-congress}{%
\section{Midterm Election Results Leave a Divided
Congress}\label{midterm-election-results-leave-a-divided-congress}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07midtermslive-west-house/merlin_146455413_a12434bd-8f74-4ccb-bfaa-d8480cbcbde3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By The New York Times

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 6, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-house-elections.html}{Get
live results here.} \textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/midterm-elections-results.html}{Read
more analysis here.}

Republicans moved toward expanding their control of the Senate as
Democrats took power in the House, with incomplete election results
pointing toward a reaffirmation of a deeply divided nation.

The Republicans flipped seats in three states --- Indiana, Missouri and
North Dakota --- that President Trump had won by a large margin in 2016,
and won an open seat in Tennessee. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas held off a
surprisingly strong challenge from Beto O'Rourke.

Money and momentum favored the Democrats, who seized more than a dozen
of the 23 seats they needed to take the House in early returns.
Democrats faced mixed results in the governor's races, picking up
governorships in Illinois, Kansas, Maine, Michigan, New Mexico and
Wisconsin, but failing to claim the coveted battleground of Florida.

The returns provided fresh evidence of the partisan split in American
political life with Democrats seizing Republican House seats in suburban
districts where affluent educated voters had been vocal in their
opposition to Mr. Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07midterms-dems/07midterms-dems-videoSixteenByNine3000-v3.jpg}

\hypertarget{democrats-win-the-house}{%
\subsection{Democrats win the House}\label{democrats-win-the-house}}

\textbf{Democrats won control of the House}, a significant victory for a
party locked out of power since the 2016 elections.

The Democratic win means a deadlocked Congress --- with Republicans in
control of the Senate and Democrats in the lower chamber --- and is a
setback for the Trump administration, which is likely to face an
onslaught of congressional investigations. Even before the election,
House Democrats had begun
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/03/us/politics/democrats-trump-impeachment.html}{preparing
a flurry of hearings, subpoenas and inquiries} into nearly every aspect
of the president and his White House.

While Democrats were favored to win back the House, their victory was
far from assured.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07midtermslive-Delgado/merlin_146457858_fe321ce8-d5b3-4ae3-a750-d0cbdd63b5f6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{here-are-results-in-key-house-races}{%
\subsection{Here are results in key House
races}\label{here-are-results-in-key-house-races}}

• Representative Steve King of Iowa won a tight race for a ninth term
despite concerns about his associations with white nationalists.

• In Texas, Democrats picked up two suburban seats, defeating
Representatives Pete Sessions and John Culberson.

• Representative Dave Brat of Virginia lost to Abigail Spanberger, a
first-time Democratic candidate and former C.I.A. operative.

• Representative Andy Barr of Kentucky defeated Amy McGrath, a former
Marine combat aviator and first-time Democratic candidate.

• In Florida, Democrats flipped two Miami-area seats held by
Republicans, electing Donna Shalala, a cabinet secretary in the Clinton
administration, and Debbie Mucarsel-Powell.

• Three African-American candidates --- Antonio Delgado in New York,
Colin Allred in Texas, and Lauren Underwood in Illinois --- defeated
Republican incumbents in majority-white districts.

Image

Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, defeated Beto O'Rourke in one of
the tightest midterm races in the country.Credit...Tamir Kalifa for The
New York Times

\hypertarget{results-in-key-senate-races}{%
\subsection{Results in key Senate
races}\label{results-in-key-senate-races}}

• Joe Donnelly, one of the most conservative Democrats in the Senate,
lost his seat in Indiana to Mike Braun.

• Phil Bredesen, a Democrat and former governor of Tennessee, lost to
Representative Marsha Blackburn.

• Senator Ted Cruz defeated Representative Beto O'Rourke, whose underdog
campaign mobilized Democrats across the country.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/ted-cruz-wins-texas-senate-race.html}{Read
the story here.}

• Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota lost to Representative Kevin
Cramer.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/heidi-heitkamp-kevin-cramer-north-dakota.html}{Read
the story here}.

• Two embattled Democratic incumbents held onto their seats:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/nyregion/bob-menendez-wins-nj-senate.html}{Senator
Robert Menendez, of New Jersey}, and Senator Joe Manchin of West
Virginia.

• Democrats flipped a seat in Nevada, when Jacky Rosen defeated Senator
Dean Heller.

• Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat of Missouri, was defeated by Josh
Hawley, the state attorney general.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/josh-hawley-claire-mccaskill-missouri.html}{Read
the story here.}

Image

Andrew Gillum, center, who ran a competitive campaign to become
Florida's first black governor, conceded the race after running behind
most of the night.Credit...Gabriella Angotti-Jones/The New York Times

\hypertarget{results-in-key-governor-races}{%
\subsection{Results in key governor
races}\label{results-in-key-governor-races}}

• Democrats picked up six governors' mansions: Illinois, Kansas, Maine,
Michigan, New Mexico and Wisconsin.

• Ron DeSantis, a Republican, defeated Andrew Gillum, who was trying to
become the first African-American governor of the coveted battleground
of Florida.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/florida-desantis-gillum-governor.html}{Read
the story here.}

• Republicans also held in Ohio and Iowa, with voters electing Mike
DeWine, the Ohio attorney general, and Gov. Kim Reynolds, in Iowa.

• As of 3 a.m. Eastern Time, Nevada, Connecticut, and Georgia were still
outstanding.

\hypertarget{its-not-over-yet}{%
\subsection{It's not over yet}\label{its-not-over-yet}}

The special election for the \textbf{Mississippi Senate advanced to a
runoff} between Cindy Hyde-Smith, a Republican, and Mike Espy, a
Democrat, according to The Associated Press.

The state uses a so-called jungle primary system, where if no candidate
reaches a 50 percent threshold, the top two vote-getters face each other
in a runoff election. Neither Ms. Hyde-Smith, who was appointed to fill
Senator Thad Cochran's seat, nor Mr. Espy broke that bar. Chris
McDaniel, a conservative, failed to make the cutoff.

Their runoff is scheduled for Nov. 27.

\hypertarget{ballot-initiatives-marijuana-and-the-minimum-wage}{%
\subsection{Ballot initiatives: Marijuana and the minimum
wage}\label{ballot-initiatives-marijuana-and-the-minimum-wage}}

Candidates weren't the only things on the ballot on Tuesday night.
Voters weighed in on more than 150 ballot initiatives.

• \textbf{Florida restored voting rights to 1.5 million people} who had
been convicted of felonies but had completed their sentences. The new
voters could change the political dynamics for the 2020 race in the
perennial battleground state.

• Massachusetts voters rejected a referendum that \textbf{would have
repealed a 2016 law preventing discrimination based on gender identity}
in public spaces, including bathrooms.

• Missouri voters \textbf{legalized medical marijuana} while North
Dakota voters \textbf{decided not to legalize} recreational marijuana.

• Voters in Arkansas and Missouri \textbf{raised the minimum wage}. In
Missouri, the wage will rise to \$11 from \$8.50; Arkansas's will
increase to \$12 from \$7.85.

Find out
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/06/us/politics/ballot-initiatives-referendum.html}{more
about ballot initiative results}.

Image

The elections division of the Nevada secretary of state's office said it
would not release results from anywhere in the state until the last
voter cast a ballot.Credit...Isaac Brekken for The New York Times

\hypertarget{a-late-night-in-nevada}{%
\subsection{A late night in Nevada}\label{a-late-night-in-nevada}}

Two and a half hours after the polls were scheduled to close in Nevada,
people were still waiting in line to vote.

The Elections Division of the Nevada secretary of state's office said it
would not release results from anywhere in the state until the last
voter cast a ballot.

At 7:43 p.m. local time, well past the scheduled closing time of 7,
voters were still waiting in Clark, Elko, Lyon and Washoe Counties. Elko
finished by 8:13; Lyon by 9:16. Clark --- the state's largest county,
home to Las Vegas and Henderson --- wrapped things up by 9:21. But in
Washoe County, home to Reno, the doors did not close until around 10
p.m., when the final voters were done.

When the ballots were counted, Jacky Rosen defeated Senator Dean Heller.

\hypertarget{mitt-romney-is-going-to-washington-after-all}{%
\subsection{Mitt Romney is going to Washington after
all}\label{mitt-romney-is-going-to-washington-after-all}}

Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 presidential
candidate, \textbf{won the Utah Senate race}, according to The
Associated Press.

Mr. Romney defeated Jenny Wilson, the Democrat, in his largely
uncompetitive race. Moderate Republicans hope he'll be a check on the
president, given his vocal criticism of Mr. Trump during the 2016
campaign.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/10/us/politics/mitt-romney-utah.html}{Read
more about why he ran here.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07women-4/07women-4-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\hypertarget{a-year-of-firsts}{%
\subsection{A year of firsts}\label{a-year-of-firsts}}

The returns mean a number of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/07/us/politics/election-history-firsts-blackburn-pressley.html}{historic
firsts}. Voters chose from a set of candidates
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/10/31/us/politics/midterm-election-candidates-diversity.html}{that
was among the most diverse ever} to run in the United States.

\textbf{Ayanna Pressley}, a Democrat in Massachusetts, will become the
first African-American woman to represent the state in Congress
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-massachusetts-elections.html}{after
winning her race}, according to The Associated Press. She
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/04/us/politics/ayanna-pressley-massachusetts.html}{beat
a 10-term Democratic incumbent in her primary} and vowed to pursue
``activist leadership'' to advance a progressive agenda.

\textbf{Jared Polis}, a wealthy Democratic congressman in Colorado,
became the first openly gay man
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-colorado-elections.html}{elected
as governor} in any state after he won his contest, according to The
Associated Press. He wants to push for single-payer health care and
renewable energy.

\textbf{Ilhan Omar,} a Democratic state legislator in Minnesota, and
\textbf{Rashida Tlaib}, a former Democratic state legislator in
Michigan,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/11/06/us/elections/results-minnesota-elections.html}{became
the first
Muslim}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/michigan-house-district-13}{women
elected} to Congress after winning their House races, according to The
Associated Press.

Ms. Omar will also
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/reuters/2018/10/31/world/africa/31reuters-usa-election-minnesota.html}{be
the first Somali-American} to serve in Congress. She has called for gun
control, single-payer health care
\href{https://www.ilhanomar.com/immigration/}{and a pathway to
citizenship} for undocumented immigrants.

Ms. Tlaib,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/14/us/politics/rashida-tlaib-muslim-congress.html}{a
Palestinian-American attorney}, has championed Medicare for All, a \$15
minimum wage and abolishing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/03/us/politics/fact-check-ice-immigration-abolish.html}{the
government agency known as ICE}.

\textbf{Sharice Davids,} a Democrat and former White House fellow from
Kansas, and \textbf{Deb Haaland,} a Democratic community activist from
New Mexico,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/kansas-house-district-3}{became
the first Native American
women}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/michigan-house-district-13}{voted
in to the House} after winning their races, according to The Associated
Press.

Ms. Davids is also the first lesbian Native American to be elected to
the House. She has
\href{https://www.shariceforcongress.com/priorities}{criticized the
Republican tax bill} and called for ``a true tax cut for the middle
class.''

In her contest,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/06/us/deb-haaland-new-mexico-congress.html}{Ms.
Haaland drew parallels} between the separation of Native American
children and the federal government's recent border actions.

\textbf{Representative Marsha Blackburn,} a Republican, will be
Tennessee's first female senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/elections/results/tennessee-senate}{after
defeating her opponent}, according to The Associated Press. She is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/09/us/politics/blackburn-abortion-tennessee-senate.html}{anti-abortion},
and stressed border security and taxes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/07/us/politics/07marsha/merlin_146453466_b41210ab-6ab9-4d72-96ea-fdcdf9729d5b-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\hypertarget{a-surprise-in-the-oklahoma-fifth}{%
\subsection{A surprise in the Oklahoma
Fifth}\label{a-surprise-in-the-oklahoma-fifth}}

In one of the most surprising upsets of the night, Kendra Horn, a
Democrat, defeated the Republican incumbent Steve Russell in Oklahoma's
Fifth District, which includes Oklahoma City. The victory came in a
state that is one of the reddest in the country. President Trump won by
36 points two years ago, and Republicans had held --- until now ---
every congressional seat.

But there have been signs of discontent. A plunge in oil prices matched
with years of tax-slashing led to school districts going to four-day
weeks and rural hospitals shutting down. The Republican governor, Mary
Fallin, has low approval ratings.

All of this has led to some backlash. Discontent has especially risen in
cities, once the homeland of Oklahoma Republicans. Democrats this summer
won several statehouse special selections in Republican-held districts
around Tulsa and Oklahoma City. Ms. Horn significantly outraised her
opponent. Still, few expected Ms. Horn, who has a background working for
nonprofits and in the aerospace industry, to win.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
