Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Wants to `Drain the
Swamp,' but Change Will Be Complex and Costly

\url{https://nyti.ms/2enhGWx}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-wants-to-drain-the-swamp-but-change-will-be-complex-and-costly}{%
\section{Trump Wants to `Drain the Swamp,' but Change Will Be Complex
and
Costly}\label{trump-wants-to-drain-the-swamp-but-change-will-be-complex-and-costly}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/gardiner-harris}{Gardiner Harris}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 10, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- After President-elect Donald J. Trump promised to
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/politics/trump-lobbyists-swamp-campaign.html}{drain
the swamp}'' that he sees in the nation's capital, his millions of
supporters are expecting vast changes in the sprawling federal
bureaucracy, and conservative activists are drooling at the chance to
remake, resize or reduce the reach of government.

Mr. Trump repeatedly told voters during the campaign that he would shut
down the Environmental Protection Agency and repeal the Affordable Care
Act. He said the Education Department is ``massive, and it can be
largely eliminated.'' He has made the federal work force of 2.8 million
employees a target, declaring that ``you have tremendous waste, fraud,
and abuse.''

But the one-time real estate mogul has largely avoided specifics about
cuts he might make, and much of his agenda imagines changes that would
require huge increases in federal spending: tripling the number of
border patrol agents; supplying the military with more warships and
fighter jets; increasing spending on infrastructure; undertaking new
efforts to confront cyberterrorism; and aggressively working to remake
trade policies.

Whatever change he envisions will likely be vastly more difficult to
enact than his army of supporters believe. Veterans of Washington's many
fights over policy warn that the city is full of ingrained
bureaucracies, each of which has entrenched support on Capitol Hill. And
while Mr. Trump will have some executive authority, legal, practical and
political limitations will constrain his efforts.

``He doesn't possess the executive power to reorganize the government at
whim,'' said Jody Freeman, a law professor at Harvard University who
served in the first Obama administration. ``There are some minor things
presidents can do, in terms of creating new offices in cabinet agencies.
But the notion that he can single-handedly abolish agencies is
fanciful.''

\hypertarget{energy-and-the-environment}{%
\subsection{Energy and the
Environment}\label{energy-and-the-environment}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/11/11/us/11AGENCIES1/11AGENCIES1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The first indication of Mr. Trump's intentions may come as he appoints
members of his cabinet, sending signals about his priorities. Sarah
Palin, the 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee, has expressed
interest in \textbf{running the} \textbf{Energy Department}. In a CNN
interview last year, she promised to dismantle it. ``If I were in charge
of that, it would be a short-term job,'' she said.

Mr. Trump has also suggested a significant \textbf{reshaping of the
agency's role}, which includes oversight of the \textbf{National Nuclear
Security Administration} and the nation's nuclear arsenal. Mr. Trump has
indicated that he would like the agency to focus chiefly on energy
extraction, and some people close to him believe he may choose oil and
gas magnate Harold Hamm to run it.

As Mr. Trump prepares to slam the brakes on President Obama's climate
change regulations and ramp up fossil fuel production, he has
\textbf{vowed to gut the Environmental Protection Agency.} ``We are
going to get rid of it in almost every form,'' he said.

That would be difficult. Mr. Trump would need an act of Congress to
eliminate the agency entirely, Ms. Freeman said. The \textbf{Clean Air
Act} and \textbf{Clean Water Act} include specific provisions that give
the agency legal powers, and changing that would require action by
Congress as well. ``Any effort to interfere with that would immediately
be challenged in court,'' Ms. Freeman said.

\hypertarget{health-and-education}{%
\subsection{Health and Education}\label{health-and-education}}

\textbf{Ditching the} \textbf{Affordable Care Act}, Mr. Obama's
signature legislative achievement, is close to a certainty.

But not every part of the law can easily be overturned, and some of the
initiatives that have changed the way the government pays for health
care in the \textbf{Medicare} program are supported by Republicans. The
**** \href{https://innovation.cms.gov/}{\textbf{Center for Medicare and
Medicaid Innovation}} and the \textbf{Patient-Centered Outcomes Research
Institute}, both deeply unpopular with congressional Republicans, will
probably be eliminated.

Image

A cheesemaker inspected wheels of aging cheese. Mr. Trump briefly
proposed eliminating the Food and Drug Administration's ``food police,''
before removing the proposal from his website.Credit...Justin
Sullivan/Getty Images

``I imagine they'll focus on getting rid of the individual and employer
mandates, insurance marketplace requirements and Medicaid expansion,''
said Lanhee J. Chen, a scholar at the Hoover Institution and a former
policy adviser to Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee.

Within the government's health agencies, Mr. Trump's campaign also
proposed \textbf{eliminating the} \textbf{Food and Drug
Administration's} ``food police,'' which it said ``dictate how the
federal government expects farmers to produce fruits and vegetables and
even dictates the nutritional content of dog food.''

But the proposal was quickly taken down from the campaign's website. The
Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011, which \textbf{strengthened the}
\textbf{F.D.A.'s} oversight of food, is popular among many Republicans
as well as with food manufacturers, tarnished by massive food recalls.

Andy Roth, the vice president for government affairs at the Club for
Growth, a conservative advocacy group, praised Mr. Trump's comments on
\textbf{scaling back the} \textbf{Education Department}. Mr. Trump has
proposed sending \$20 billion to the states for school choice programs.

``Bureaucrats in D.C. don't know how to provide for an education like a
parent can,'' Mr. Roth said. But he said he is largely mystified about
the president-elect's plans. ``Trump is a huge question mark,'' he said.
``And we honestly don't know which way he is going go.''

\hypertarget{economy}{%
\subsection{Economy}\label{economy}}

The president-elect has vowed to double the nation's rate of economic
growth through a combination of broad tax cuts, new trade policies and
smart deregulation.

Image

Mr. Trump is unlikely to overhaul the Treasury Department, analysts
say.Credit...Kevin Lamarque/Reuters

But analysts say he is unlikely to undertake a major overhaul of the
various government agencies that handle economic affairs, such as the
Departments of \textbf{Treasury}, \textbf{Commerce}, \textbf{Labor},
\textbf{Agriculture}, \textbf{Transportation} and \textbf{Housing}. At
the Treasury Department, the
\href{https://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/fsoc/Pages/home.aspx}{\textbf{Financial
Stability Oversight Council}} and the
\href{http://www.consumerfinance.gov/}{\textbf{Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau}}, both created under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Protection Law, may have their wings clipped, since neither
is popular with congressional Republicans.

``I think Dodd-Frank is the major reason the economy has not grown at
the usual pace of recovery following a recession,'' said Peter Wallison,
a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative
Washington think tank.

\href{https://www.greatagain.gov/policy/financial-services.html}{A brief
note} this week on Mr. Trump's transition website promised to
``\textbf{dismantle'' Dodd-Frank} --- but few foresee an absolute
overhaul since that would require ambitious legislative action in
Congress. Even Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, signaled
Wednesday that he intends to move cautiously.

\hypertarget{law-enforcement-and-national-security}{%
\subsection{Law Enforcement and National
Security}\label{law-enforcement-and-national-security}}

Some conservatives may also be disappointed when it comes to Mr. Trump's
approach to the nation's military and intelligence establishment. Mr.
Trump lashed out during the campaign at Mr. Obama's foreign policy, his
handling of wars in the Middle East and the government's effort on
immigration. But the president-elect's prescription for change is likely
to result in more spending, not less.

Image

Mr. Trump has promised a ``full audit'' at the Pentagon to end
bureaucracy there.Credit...Seaman Christopher A. Michaels/Department of
Defense, via European Pressphoto Agency

Mr. Trump wants to \textbf{root out waste and abuse at the}
\textbf{Department of Defense}, even as he calls for \textbf{increasing
the size of} \textbf{the Army} to 540,000 active duty soldiers,
increasing \textbf{the Navy} to 350 ships and providing \textbf{the Air
Force} with 1,200 fighter jets. And he promises to pay for all of that
with a ``full audit'' at the Pentagon that eliminates duplicative
bureaucracy and ends unwanted programs.

But history suggests he will fail in any overhaul of military programs,
said Amy Zegart, the co-director of the \textbf{Center for International
Security and Cooperation} at Stanford University. She predicted that
change would be opposed by legions of defense and intelligence
bureaucrats, as well as powerful members of Congress whose turf would be
threatened.

``Forging change will be much, much harder than he expects,'' she said.

At the \textbf{Justice Department}, Mr. Obama significantly expanded
efforts to investigate unconstitutional policing and demanded changes in
police departments that have shown patterns of excessive force or other
abuses. Mr. Trump has not said what changes he was considering but has
declared that ``the war on our police must end.''

A spokeswoman for the president-elect declined on Thursday to provide
any information about Mr. Trump's thinking about the size and shape of
government. For now, conservative activists say they are unsure of what
to expect from the new president-elect.

``I would hope that he would embrace some radical program terminations,
but I'm not holding my breath,'' said Chris Edwards, the editor of a
blog for the Cato Institute \textbf{on downsizing government}. In a
\href{https://www.cato.org/blog/trump-spending-cut-ideas}{post} on
Thursday, Mr. Edwards called Mr. Trump ``timid'' and noted he had not
pledged to eliminate subsidies for schools, farms, housing, energy and
transit --- cuts that conservatives crave.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
