Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}E.U.
Deal, U.K. Extradition Treaty, Google: Your Tuesday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/39csDmW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{eu-deal-uk-extradition-treaty-google-your-tuesday-briefing}{%
\section{E.U. Deal, U.K. Extradition Treaty, Google: Your Tuesday
Briefing}\label{eu-deal-uk-extradition-treaty-google-your-tuesday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering the E.U.'s \textbf{landmark stimulus deal,} the
suspension of the U.K.'s \textbf{extradition treaty with Hong Kong} and
the last days of a \textbf{famous Parisian store}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/21/world/21embriefing-europe-merkel/merlin_174721164_3045c434-6581-41c1-b5a8-afede810a9d4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{eu-agrees-on-a-groundbreaking-stimulus-package}{%
\subsection{E.U. agrees on a groundbreaking stimulus
package}\label{eu-agrees-on-a-groundbreaking-stimulus-package}}

After days of intense talks in Brussels, European Union leaders on
Tuesday stepped up to confront one of the gravest challenges in the
bloc's history,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/europe/eu-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{agreeing
on a 750 billion euro spending package} to rescue their economies from
the ravages of the pandemic.

The deal, spearheaded by Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and
President Emmanuel Macron of France, was notable for its firsts.
European countries will raise large sums by selling bonds collectively,
not individually. And much of the money will go to hard-hit member
nations as grants, not loans.

Leaders agreed that the scale of the crisis required groundbreaking
measures to ensure the E.U.'s legitimacy, stability and prosperity. But
the negotiations were notable for their rancor, and it was clear that
the pooling of resources and sovereignty had come at a cost. At one
point, Mr. Macron slapped the table and yelled at Chancellor Sebastian
Kurz of Austria for impeding the deal, and for leaving the room to take
a call.

\textbf{Details:} Unusually for a German leader, Ms. Merkel sided with
the bloc's southern countries --- and did battle with the nations she
once championed, the northern members less affected by the virus, which
have been wary of the vast sums being discussed.

\textbf{Misplaced confidence:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/europe/coronavirus-mistakes-france-uk-italy.html}{Our
reporters explored how Europe became an epicenter} of the pandemic.
Experts say European leaders became complacent after containing the 2009
swine flu, scaling back stockpiles of gear and equipment and shifting to
``just in time'' contracts --- overlooking the possibility that a
pandemic could disrupt global supply chains.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Two potential coronavirus vaccines, from Oxford University and the
  Chinese company CanSino,
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu\#link-76470c34}{have
  triggered immune responses in hundreds of people without dangerous
  side effects}.
\item
  Synairgen, a U.K.-based biotech company, said early results indicated
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/covid-19-treatment-synairgen-interferon-beta.html}{that
  an inhaled form of a commonly available drug} could reduce the odds
  that a patient would need intensive care.
\item
  Once a model for controlling the virus, Hong Kong is on edge
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/asia/hong-kong-coronavirus.html}{from
  a new wave of infections}. Hospitals are now seeing more cases per day
  than ever, and health officials are unable to determine where many of
  them originated, despite a robust contact tracing system.

  Here are
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/coronavirus-updates.html}{the
  latest updates}, as well as
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps
  of the pandemic}.
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab announced the treaty's suspension in the
House of Commons on Monday.Credit...Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

\hypertarget{uk-suspends-its-extradition-treaty-with-hong-kong}{%
\subsection{U.K. suspends its extradition treaty with Hong
Kong}\label{uk-suspends-its-extradition-treaty-with-hong-kong}}

In response to the national security law imposed by China on Hong Kong,
Britain on Monday
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/extradition-treaty-hong-kong.html}{suspended
its extradition treaty with the territory}.

The foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, cited concerns that under the
sweeping new law, anyone extradited to Hong Kong from Britain --- which
ruled the territory as a colony until 1997 --- could easily be sent to
mainland China. Australia and Canada suspended their own extradition
treaties with Hong Kong earlier this month.

China is expected to be high on the agenda this week when Prime Minister
Boris Johnson meets with Mike Pompeo, the U.S. secretary of state, who
has called on allies to draw a firm line with Beijing on a number of
fronts. Last week, Britain
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/business/huawei-uk-5g.html?searchResultPosition=1}{barred
equipment from the Chinese tech giant Huawei} from its 5G network.

\textbf{Response:} A spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Wang
Wenbin, urged Britain to ``stop going further down the wrong path.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Switzerland last month rolled out the SwissCovid app, designed to trace
potential coronavirus infections.Credit...Fabrice Coffrini/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

\hypertarget{for-some-googles-virus-app-code-can-track-location}{%
\subsection{For some, Google's virus app code can track
location}\label{for-some-googles-virus-app-code-can-track-location}}

When Google and Apple announced plans in April for free software to help
alert people to possible coronavirus exposure,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/technology/google-covid-tracker-app.html}{the
companies said it would not track users' locations}.

Since then, Germany, Switzerland and other countries have used the code
to develop national apps that have been downloaded more than 20 million
times. But users of the Android operating system must first turn on the
device's location setting, which means Google can still find out where
they are.

Some government agencies that use the software seemed surprised that
Google could detect Android users' locations. Others said they had
unsuccessfully pushed the company to make a change.

\textbf{What this mean:} Many Android users in Europe feel misled by
their governments, and privacy and security experts say they are
troubled that the issue might deter some people from using public health
apps.

\textbf{Response:} A Google spokesman said the virus alert apps that use
the company's software did not use device location. The apps use
Bluetooth scanning signals to detect smartphones that come into close
contact with one another --- without needing to know the devices'
locations. Once Android users turn on the location setting, however,
Google can determine exactly where they are.

\hypertarget{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 5 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{a-famous-paris-store-will-shut-its-doors}{%
\subsection{A famous Paris store will shut its
doors}\label{a-famous-paris-store-will-shut-its-doors}}

Image

Credit...Yoan Valat/EPA, via Shutterstock

Tati, the department store that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/europe/france-paris-tati-coronavirus.html}{revolutionized
postwar shopping in France} and stamped its pink gingham bag on the
vibrant Paris neighborhood of Barb√®s, will be gone by next year. It is a
victim of Covid-19, its latest owners say, and sharply declining sales.

Our Paris bureau chief described it as ``a once-thronged wonder of Paris
more visited than the Eiffel Tower.''

``Equality, for everybody'' was how one shopper described it. ``This is
a place where everybody can shop. You never leave with your hands
empty.''

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{Climate change:} Polar bears
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/climate/polar-bear-extinction.html}{could
be close to extinction by the end of the century} due to shrinking
Arctic sea ice if global warming continues unabated, according to a new
study.

\textbf{U.S. presidential election:} Former Vice President Joe Biden led
President Trump by 15 percentage points in the latest poll by ABC News
and The Washington Post, and he has held a nearly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/upshot/biden-trump-poll.html}{double-digit
advantage} in an average of surveys for more than a month. Such big
leads tend to erode --- will this one be different?

Image

Credit...Nyimas Laula for The New York Times

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, people foraging for clams, crabs and shrimp in
Bali in June. The tourist-dependent Indonesian island is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/asia/bali-tourism-coronavirus.html}{struggling
to get back on its feet}. The pandemic has forced many resort workers to
return to their villages and take up traditional ways of making a
living.

\textbf{What we're listening to:} This
\href{https://armchairexpertpod.com/pods/david-sinclair}{Armchair Expert
podcast} about aging research, featuring the Australian biologist David
Sinclair. ``The way we age affects our response to disease, and the work
Mr. Sinclair's team is doing at Harvard might make your jaw drop,'' says
Melina Delkic of the Briefings team.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Bryan Gardner for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Barrett
Washburne.

\textbf{Cook:} This
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1021252-heirloom-tomato-tart}{heirloom
tomato tart} celebrates juicy, vibrant tomatoes in a cheesy, herby,
custard-filled, flaky crust, with pesto punctuating each bite.

\textbf{See:} Museums in Europe are reopening, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/arts/design/museums-masks.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{masks
festooned with art} by masters like Van Gogh and Rembrandt are hot
souvenirs.

\textbf{Deal:} Are you a people pleaser? Learn how to shift course and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/smarter-living/people-pleaser-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=collection}{say
no to something you're not comfortable with} during the pandemic.

\emph{We may be venturing outside, but we're still spending lots of time
inside.} \href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home
has our full collection of ideas}} \emph{on what to read, cook, watch
and do to make it fun.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{music-and-activism}{%
\subsection{Music and activism}\label{music-and-activism}}

Meshell Ndegeocello, Brandi Carlile and Hayley Kiyoko, artists of
varying backgrounds, found shared experiences in a conversation about
\href{https://timesevents.nytimes.com/musicandqueering}{music, activism
and queer identity}, part of The Times's ``Live at Home'' series. Here's
an excerpt from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/insider/music-queer-activism.html}{their
exchange}.

\textbf{When did activism start for each of you? When did you become
politically awakened?}

\textbf{Hayley Kiyoko:} I was on my own journey. For me, it's been out
of necessity. I think that for most people who have lived their lives
being activists, it is through necessity. When I released my music video
for \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I0MT8SwNa_U}{``Girls Like
Girls,''} that was out of necessity for myself.

\textbf{Meshell Ndegeocello:} In my youth, I wasn't very aware of it. I
was very singularly focused on making music. Music is something where I
feel genderless and raceless. But being a person of color, I think every
day of my existence is pretty much making a statement, and I've only
come to understand that as I now am 52.

Image

Credit...The New York Times

\textbf{How do you integrate queerness into your music?}

\textbf{Brandi Carlile:} Music is such an expression that your sexuality
comes out. It just does. Whether you're writing about it or not. The
people that need to know, know. I write songs with guys and sometimes
they'll have written a song or a narrative and they're singing about a
woman, but the perspective is so male I can't put that on me. ``I don't
feel that way, I feel really female about this,'' and that's just where
I am with my gender identity so I kind of need to change this --- keep
the pronoun where it is, but I need it to be me.

\textbf{So how do you balance activism and being out with threats of
violence that still exist?}

\textbf{Meshell:} I have to say your safety is much more important, your
life. I'm a very passive, nonviolent person, and I hope you can find the
peace within yourself, so perhaps do your activism through other
channels that don't jeopardize your safety. That's the most important
thing.

\textbf{Hayley:} Survival is key and without you, there is no change.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
‚Ä¢ We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode features a look at the life and legacy of
John Lewis, the civil rights icon.\\
‚Ä¢ Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: Kindergarten basics (four letters).
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find all our puzzles
here}.\\
‚Ä¢ Eshe Nelson is
\href{https://www.nytco.com/press/new-business-reporter-in-london/}{joining
our London bureau as a business reporter} covering Brexit, the economy
and more.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
