Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/soccer}{Soccer}\textbar{}Bahrain Buys Into Paris
F.C., With Plans to Use It as a Billboard

\url{https://nyti.ms/39I6Gw7}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bahrain-buys-into-paris-fc-with-plans-to-use-it-as-a-billboard}{%
\section{Bahrain Buys Into Paris F.C., With Plans to Use It as a
Billboard}\label{bahrain-buys-into-paris-fc-with-plans-to-use-it-as-a-billboard}}

The kingdom's investment has made it the latest Gulf country to try to
improve its nation's image by attaching it to a European soccer club.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/sports/29soccer-paris1/merlin_174076584_91ba0b84-d188-4cfc-83d8-b346c16ecc01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tariq-panja}{Tariq Panja}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

For years, soccer in Paris has been the hub of Qatar's global ambitions.
Through its ownership of the city's biggest team, Paris St.-Germain,
Qatar has dreamed big, spent big and won big. In doing so, the country
has also used the sport's popularity to enhance its profile on the world
stage.

It may soon have some competition.

On Monday, a second Gulf dynasty entered the city's soccer scene. Paris
F.C., a team that plays in France's second tier, announced that the
Kingdom of Bahrain had bought a minority stake in the club.

\begin{quote}
{[}üìùCOMMUNIQUE{]} - Le Royaume du Bahre√Øn nouveau partenaire strat√©gique
du Paris FC.

Toutes les informations
‚¨á\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/ExploreBahrain?src=hash\&ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{\#ExploreBahrain}

--- Paris FC (@ParisFC)
\href{https://twitter.com/ParisFC/status/1287810680423424000?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{July
27, 2020}
\end{quote}

The purchase price and the investors' ambitions appear, for now, to be
more modest than Qatar's cash-soaked efforts, which have turned P.S.G.
into a perennial French champion and one of Europe's most formidable
teams. But Paris F.C.'s immediate goal is clear: to reach France's top
division, Ligue 1, in the next three years and to lift its women's side
``as high as possible'' in the top tier.

Team officials also left little doubt about Bahrain's goal: As at
P.S.G., the owners hope the soccer team
\href{https://parisfc.fr/a-la-une-paris-fc/communique-officiel-6/}{will
act as a billboard for the Gulf state}, and attract tourists to a nation
that is still reeling from the reputational damage it sustained when the
country's monarchy put down pro-democracy uprisings
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/03/18/world/middleeast/18youth.html}{during
the height of the Arab Spring}.

``I think they saw a fantastic opportunity for investment, and Paris
F.C. is a good tool of communication to promote the country,'' Fabrice
Herrault, the director general of the team, said in an interview. As
part of the agreement in which Bahrain's sovereign wealth fund took a 20
percent stake in the club, Paris F.C. will, starting next season, have
the words ``Explore Bahrain'' emblazoned on its uniforms.

The National Communication Centre in Bahrain did not respond to requests
for comment, sent through its embassy in the United Kingdom, about the
kingdom's investment in Paris F.C. or about claims by multiple groups
and even its citizens that it has engaged in human rights abuses in
crushing antigovernment protests.

By investing in soccer, Bahrain is following its Gulf neighbors down a
well-trodden path. Qatar has owned P.S.G. since 2011, and the
billionaire brother of the ruler of the United Arab Emirates has spent
lavishly to assemble one of the best teams in the world at Manchester
City in England.
\href{https://www.sufc.co.uk/news/2019/october/key-personnel/}{A Saudi
Arabian prince owns} another Premier League club, Sheffield United, and
that kingdom's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/sports/premier-league-saudi-arabia.html}{sovereign
wealth fund has bid to buy a third}, Newcastle United. Gulf owners also
control teams in
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-saudi-power-broker-of-spanish-soccers-second-division-11595851200}{Spain}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/07/16/sports/worldcup/a-qatari-soccer-program-looking-to-rise-buys-a-foothold-in-europe.html}{Belgium}.

Those direct investments, and related ones over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/09/sports/bein-sports-qatar-beoutq.html}{the
pirating of television rights controlled by Qatar's beIN Media Group},
have at times made European soccer a battleground in the diplomatic war
between Qatar and several of its neighbors,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/sports/soccer/saudi-arabia-qatar-beIN-premier-league.html}{including
Saudi Arabia and Bahrain}.

``They join us for many objectives --- mainly to help them to spread the
image of Bahrain in France and Europe,'' Herrault said.

That image has yet to recover since the 2011 uprisings by members of the
country's Shiite Muslim majority against the Sunni Muslim ruling family.
To put it down, the authorities were accused of torturing hundreds of
people taken into custody during the crackdown, among them protest
leaders but also professionals, like doctors and athletes, who had
sympathized with the demonstrators. The country's action even became an
issue for FIFA, world soccer's governing body, when a powerful official
from Bahrain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/25/sports/soccer/sheikhs-candidacy-opens-new-door-to-criticism-of-fifa-human-rights.html}{ran
for the organization's presidency} in 2016.

In 2019, the fate of the former national team player
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/11/world/asia/thailand-soccer-hakeem-al-araibi.html}{Hakeem
al-Araibi} drew global headlines when Bahrain attempted to have him
extradited from Thailand, where he had been detained
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/06/world/asia/bahrain-thailand-asylum-fifa.html}{while
on his honeymoon}. Araibi had fled to Australia after the Arab Spring
protests but was jailed, at Bahrain's urging, when he arrived in
Thailand; he was eventually released and returned to Australia only
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/06/world/asia/bahrain-thailand-asylum-fifa.html}{after
an international outcry}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/sports/29soccer-paris4/merlin_174076773_083d185a-f007-4873-b276-8ddcfc6972a5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Bahrain, a key ally of the United States in the Persian Gulf, had
pledged to carry out reforms in the wake of the violence, but since
then, most of the country's leading dissidents have been forced into
exile or sent to prisons where,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/11/23/world/middleeast/abuse-by-bahrain-forces-continues-despite-kings-pledge-rights-group-says.html}{human
rights groups say}, torture and other abuse are common.

``My first thought was this is another attempt by Bahrain to whitewash
its horrific rights record and another way of buying influence in
Europe,'' said Sayed Ahmed Alwadaei, the director of advocacy for the
Bahrain Institute for Rights and Democracy.

Alwadaei was jailed after taking part in pro-democracy protests and fled
to the United Kingdom after his release. Bahraini authorities revoked
his citizenship in 2015.

Herrault, the Paris F.C. executive, declined to discuss the allegations
of human rights abuses.

The soccer investment is not Bahrain's first foray into international
sports. The country has hosted 15 Formula One Grand Prix races, the
first in 2004, and has a professional cycling team that competes in the
Tour de France. It has also naturalized some elite foreign athletes,
notably middle-distance runners from Africa, to compete in its colors at
Olympic Games and world championships. Campaign groups like Amnesty
International have long argued that these actions were designed to
change public opinion of Bahrain.

In Paris F.C., Bahrain has invested in a team with a curious history.
The club was born in 1969 before splitting in two three years later,
with the other half becoming Paris St.-Germain. Paris F.C. languished in
the amateur ranks for years until the owner Pierre Ferracci, a
businessman with close links to President Emmanuel Macron of France,
oversaw its most recent rise through the professional ranks.

Image

Neymar, center, was the most expensive piece of a valuable P.S.G.
squad.Credit...Bertrand Guay/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Ferracci's plan, now buttressed by Bahrain's millions, is to establish
the team as one of the best proving grounds in France and beyond. Half
of all domestic players in France's top two divisions come from the
Paris region, as did
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/07/sports/soccer/france-world-cup-kylian-mbappe.html\#:~:text=Of\%20the\%2023\%20players\%20whom,Presnel\%20Kimpembe\%20and\%20Steven\%20Nzonzi.}{a
third of France's 2018 World Cup-winning team}. But until two years ago,
when Paris F.C. received a coveted license to run an academy, P.S.G. had
the only accredited youth development program in the region.

``This region is like a gold mine,'' Herrault said, though he added that
the club was not looking to rival P.S.G., which he described as ``an
ocean away.''

While P. S.G. has spent heavily on established stars like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/26/sports/soccer/at-psg-price-for-neymar-and-elusive-success-might-be-worth-it.html}{the
Brazilian Neymar}, the Paris-born Kylian Mbapp√© and others, Paris F.C.'s
means mean it will have to temper its aspirations, even as it announced
that the new investment would allow it to increase its budget by 30
percent.

``Our objective is not to win the Champions League,'' Herrault said.
``It is to be promoted to Ligue 1 and stay there for many, many years
and to have one of the best academies in France and in Europe.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
