Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}4 Takeaways From Tuesday's
Primaries

\url{https://nyti.ms/2wpVRMJ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{4-takeaways-from-tuesdays-primaries}{%
\section{4 Takeaways From Tuesday's
Primaries}\label{4-takeaways-from-tuesdays-primaries}}

Races for governor have often yielded centrist candidates. Voters in
Florida, Oklahoma and Arizona chose a different route. And women, once
again, made a strong showing in House races.

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 29, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{its-a-breakthrough-year-for-black-candidates}{%
\subsection{It's a breakthrough year for black
candidates}\label{its-a-breakthrough-year-for-black-candidates}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/30/us/politics/30TAKEAWAYS1/30TAKEAWAYS1-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/28/us/politics/florida-arizona-election-results.html}{historic
upset overturned Democratic politics} in Florida, as Andrew Gillum, the
liberal 39-year-old mayor of Tallahassee, overcame several aggressive
opponents to become the first black nominee for governor in the state's
history. He campaigned on a bluntly liberal message, calling for a
single-payer-style health care system at the state level, and he earned
Bernie Sanders' endorsement and crucial financial support from
mega-donors on the left like Tom Steyer and George Soros.

His victory caps a season of breakthroughs for African-American
Democrats running for powerful governorships, including next door in
Georgia,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/19/us/politics/stacey-abrams-georgia.html}{where
Stacey Abrams could become the country's first black female governor},
and in Maryland, where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/27/us/politics/ben-jealous-maryland-governor.html}{Democrats
nominated Ben Jealous}, a former president of the N.A.A.C.P.

Mr. Gillum is likely to face a difficult fight in the general election
against Representative Ron DeSantis, the G.O.P. nominee
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/30/us/politics/florida-governor-election.html}{who
is a vocal ally of President Trump}, and Republicans have already
signaled that they intend to brand Mr. Gillum as outside the political
mainstream of his traditionally moderate state.

And in what may be a painful irony for some Democrats, Mr. Gillum's win
was also a stinging loss for Gwen Graham, a former member of Congress
who had hoped to become Florida's first female governor. Though she was
seen as the front-runner going into the primary, Ms. Graham finished
second, ahead of three wealthy male opponents but about 3 percentage
points behind Mr. Gillum.

\hypertarget{a-sun-belt-test-for-trumpism}{%
\subsection{A Sun Belt test for
Trumpism}\label{a-sun-belt-test-for-trumpism}}

Image

Representative Martha McSally, the Republican candidate for Senate in
Arizona, at her watch party in Tempe on Tuesday.Credit...Conor E. Ralph
for The New York Times

Mr. DeSantis was not the only Trump loyalist nominated for office on
Tuesday night. Joining him were Rick Scott, the Florida governor, who is
running for Senate against the Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson, and
Representative Martha McSally, who won the G.O.P. nomination for an open
Senate seat in Arizona.

These Republican candidates --- all closely aligned with Mr. Trump ---
will test the durability of Mr. Trump's political coalition in two
highly diverse states that he carried against Hillary Clinton in 2016.
Mr. DeSantis and Ms. McSally have linked themselves particularly closely
to the president this year to win contested primary elections.

The Midwest is often seen as the heart of Mr. Trump's political base,
but Florida and Arizona, with 40 Electoral College votes between them,
were just as decisive in his slim national victory. The ability of
Republicans to hold onto these states in 2018 may say as much about Mr.
Trump's political future as the pitched races of the Rust Belt.

\hypertarget{gender-beats-ideology-in-federal-races}{%
\subsection{Gender beats ideology (in federal
races)}\label{gender-beats-ideology-in-federal-races}}

Image

Gwen Graham, right, after conceding the Florida governor primary to
Andrew Gillum.Credit...John Raoux/Associated Press

Ms. Graham's defeat was a disappointment for Democrats hoping to break a
gender barrier in Florida, but Tuesday's elections provided as
pronounced a display of female candidates' strength as any primary night
this year. Democrats nominated women for six competitive House races in
Florida --- all but one of the contested seats currently held by
Republicans --- and for two targeted House seats and an open Senate seat
in Arizona.

In some cases, Democratic women easily beat back male candidates running
markedly to their left, suggesting again that primary voters are looking
more to identity than ideology to shape their choices.

In Central Florida, Representative Stephanie Murphy, a 39-year-old
moderate ``Blue Dog'' Democrat, won her primary by more than 70
percentage points against a male activist backed by liberals who
included Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. In South Florida, Donna Shalala, the
77-year-old
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/27/us/politics/donna-shalala-congress.html}{former
federal health and human services secretary}, won a close primary for an
open House seat against a younger male state legislator who criticized
her from the left.

And in Arizona, former Representative Ann Kirkpatrick, seeking a
political comeback in an open seat, turned back a male opponent, Matt
Heinz, who attacked her as a moderate and a career politician.

The wave of support for women has been overwhelmingly on the Democratic
side this year, but Republicans also notably chose women for some of the
most challenging elections of the night, including the contest for
Senate in Arizona.

\hypertarget{shunning-the-center-in-governors-races}{%
\subsection{Shunning the center in governors'
races}\label{shunning-the-center-in-governors-races}}

Image

A man at a party for Representative Ron DeSantis, the Republican nominee
for governor, who has been a vocal ally of President
Trump.Credit...Phelan M. Ebenhack/Associated Press

Governors often pride themselves on being less ideological, and more
technocratic, than other politicians. Many say they are executives, not
speechmakers or activists. And in a number of the most crucial races
this year --- in states like Ohio, Wisconsin and Michigan --- the two
parties have picked decidedly conventional champions.

But the primaries for the offices on Tuesday night yielded more
crusaders than consensus-builders, and they set the stage for intensely
polarizing general election campaigns in big states across the map.

Mr. Gillum and Mr. DeSantis, a progressive activist and a pugilistic
Trump defender, may lead the way in Florida. They were joined the same
evening by other hard-line candidates: In Oklahoma, Republicans
nominated Kevin Stitt, a conservative businessman who mimicked Mr. Trump
in his campaign, over a more moderate alternative. And in Arizona,
Democrats picked David Garcia, a fiery education professor, to challenge
Gov. Doug Ducey, rejecting a state legislator who stressed his
pragmatism.

In some cases, these candidates may swing toward the center in the fall
--- or try to. But they are already putting state politics to the test
in a collection of important battlegrounds.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
