Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Spain
Quarantine, Russia Protests, Olivia de Havilland: Your Monday Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/3f4DlNF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{spain-quarantine-russia-protests-olivia-de-havilland-your-monday-briefing}{%
\section{Spain Quarantine, Russia Protests, Olivia de Havilland: Your
Monday
Briefing}\label{spain-quarantine-russia-protests-olivia-de-havilland-your-monday-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/17/reader-center/author-isabella-kwai/author-isabella-kwai-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/isabella-kwai}{Isabella Kwai}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/morning-briefing}{sign-up}.)

\begin{quote}
Good morning.

We're covering new quarantine rules on \textbf{travelers from Spain},
continuing \textbf{protests in Russia} against President Vladimir Putin
and the \textbf{death of a Hollywood Golden Age star}.
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/world/27ambriefing-europe-spain/merlin_174959622_636c2715-a49b-4ae6-90de-36cfae329129-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{britons-returning-from-spain-face-quarantine}{%
\subsection{Britons returning from Spain face
quarantine}\label{britons-returning-from-spain-face-quarantine}}

Often criticized for a slow response to the coronavirus, the British
government quickly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/world/europe/Spain-quarantine-UK-travel.html}{imposed
a quarantine this weekend on anyone arriving from Spain}, after
coronavirus cases spiked there.

But the speed blindsided many Britons who had traveled to Spain assuming
they could return home without restrictions --- including the
transportation secretary responsible for aviation policy, Grant Shapps,
who was on vacation.

Travelers will now have to isolate themselves for 14 days when they
return. As a result, many in Britain are rethinking their plans, and
some airlines canceled flights to Spain.

The decision had been made after data received on Friday showed a jump
in Spanish cases, the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, said.

\textbf{Details:} Scotland, which had lifted its quarantine rules for
Spain just a few days ago, said it would reimpose them. France on Friday
also advised against travel to Catalonia, Spain's northeastern region
bordering France, where hundreds of thousands of residents were in
temporary lockdown this month.

In the last week, Spain's daily average has topped 1,700 cases --- as
many as Britain, France and Italy combined.

\textbf{In other news:}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Kim Jong-un}, North Korea's leader, placed a city near the
  country's border with the South under lockdown and
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus-kim-jong-un.html}{declared
  a national emergency} after acknowledging that his country might have
  its first case of the coronavirus.
\item
  President Jair Bolsonaro of \textbf{Brazil} said on Saturday that
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/world/americas/bolsonaro-coronavirus.html}{he
  no longer had the coronavirus}, appearing to have experienced only
  mild symptoms from a scourge he has repeatedly downplayed. More than
  86,000 people in Brazil have died from the virus.
\end{itemize}

Here are the
\href{https://nl.nytimes.com/f/newsletter/TEd7jYCzIJAEgTIonGldBQ~~/AAAAAQA~/RgRhAHRdP4QiAWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjAvMDcvMjYvd29ybGQvY29yb25hdmlydXMtbGl2ZS11cGRhdGVzLmh0bWw_YWN0aW9uPWNsaWNrJmNhbXBhaWduX2lkPTcmZW1jPWVkaXRfTUJBRV9wXzIwMjAwNzI2Jmluc3RhbmNlX2lkPTIwNjM3Jm1vZHVsZT1Ub3ArU3RvcmllcyZubD1tb3JuaW5nLWJyaWVmaW5nJnBndHlwZT1Ib21lcGFnZSZyZWdpX2lkPTI2MDkzMzUmc2VjdGlvbj10b3BOZXdzJnNlZ21lbnRfaWQ9MzQ0MjEmdGU9MSZ1c2VyX2lkPTdiMDVmNmVmM2JhYjJhODhmODQ4YWUxMDc0NzE0MGM5VwNueXRCCgAqXe8dXwOQ9pNSFHNpZGFja2VyQG55dGltZXMuY29tWAQAAAAA}{latest
updates} and
\href{https://nl.nytimes.com/f/a/JuocS582l3qnDzqenzh8Ow~~/AAAAAQA~/RgRhAHRdP0TwaHR0cHM6Ly93d3cubnl0aW1lcy5jb20vaW50ZXJhY3RpdmUvMjAyMC93b3JsZC9jb3JvbmF2aXJ1cy1tYXBzLmh0bWw_Y2FtcGFpZ25faWQ9NyZlbWM9ZWRpdF9NQkFFX3BfMjAyMDA3MjYmaW5zdGFuY2VfaWQ9MjA2Mzcmbmw9bW9ybmluZy1icmllZmluZyZyZWdpX2lkPTI2MDkzMzUmc2VjdGlvbj10b3BOZXdzJnNlZ21lbnRfaWQ9MzQ0MjEmdGU9MSZ1c2VyX2lkPTdiMDVmNmVmM2JhYjJhODhmODQ4YWUxMDc0NzE0MGM5VwNueXRCCgAqXe8dXwOQ9pNSFHNpZGFja2VyQG55dGltZXMuY29tWAQAAAAA}{maps}
of the pandemic.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

The large, ongoing protests in Khabarovsk have little precedent in
post-Soviet Russia.Credit...Evgenii Pereverzev/Reuters

\hypertarget{russian-street-rallies-continue-for-third-week}{%
\subsection{Russian street rallies continue for third
week}\label{russian-street-rallies-continue-for-third-week}}

Tens of thousands of demonstrators
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/world/europe/russia-protests-putin-khabarovsk.html}{rallied
for the third straight weekend} in Khabarovsk, in Russia's Far East. The
outpouring of anger, fueled by the arrest of a popular governor, has
little precedent in modern Russia. It highlights the discontent that
President Vladimir Putin now faces across the country.

Just this month, Mr. Putin won a scripted referendum that will allow him
to stay in office until 2036. Still, public disenchantment with
corruption, stifled freedoms and stagnant incomes has worsened with the
pandemic.

\textbf{Bigger picture:} Across the country, fear of the police and the
seeming hopelessness of effecting change has largely kept people off the
streets, and many believe an alternative to Mr. Putin could be worse. He
still enjoys about a 60 percent approval rating, though that is falling.

\textbf{Related:} Facebook hired
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/world/europe/ukraine-facebook-fake-news.html}{a
Ukrainian group battling Russian disinformation to flag misleading
posts}. But the group has been battling accusations of ties to the
Ukrainian far right and of bias in its fact-checking --- raising
questions about who is a neutral fact checker in a country at war.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Employees of Index, Hungary's main independent news website, announced
their mass resignation on Friday after their editor in chief was fired
last week.Credit...Bernadett Szabo/Reuters

\hypertarget{hungarys-independent-press-comes-under-attack}{%
\subsection{Hungary's independent press comes under
attack}\label{hungarys-independent-press-comes-under-attack}}

Hungary's most widely read news site was thrown into disarray last week
after the organization's editor in chief was fired and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/world/europe/hungary-poland-media-freedom-index.html}{scores
of journalists quit in protest}, as the government moved closer to
complete control over the country's media landscape.

The takeover of Index.hu's advertising unit by an ally of Prime Minister
Viktor Orban was part of an effort to limit dissenting voices and
silence critics. The site is one of many independent media outlets in
Central Europe that have been pressured financially and politically by
governments bent on controlling public discourse.

\textbf{Context:} The decline of such outlets in Hungary is part of a
troubling pattern. Since returning to power, Mr. Orban has rewritten
Hungary's constitution to favor his party and has overhauled the
judicial system. Poland's press also faces pressure following a
presidential election.

\textbf{Quote of note:} ``Imagine all the media in a U.S. state were to
come under the ownership of a single political group,'' one media think
tank commentator said, ``and all of these media outlets are funded by
taxpayer money.''

\hypertarget{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}{%
\subsubsection{If you have 5 minutes, this is worth
it}\label{if-you-have-5-minutes-this-is-worth-it}}

\hypertarget{no-summer-ritual-for-french-algerians}{%
\subsection{No summer ritual for
French-Algerians}\label{no-summer-ritual-for-french-algerians}}

Image

Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York Times

For many French citizens of Algerian descent whose families migrated
across the Mediterranean, summer in Algeria is a cornerstone of their
cross-cultural identity --- what they call ``bled,'' a word derived from
Arabic that refers to the countryside.

This year, with Algeria's borders closed,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/world/europe/france-algeria-summer-vacations.html}{they
are stuck, and the pain is acute}. ``It's sacred for us to leave,''
Malika Ha√Ø said. Above, women in Toulouse shared emotional memories of
trips to Algeria.

\hypertarget{heres-what-else-is-happening}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what else is
happening}\label{heres-what-else-is-happening}}

\textbf{U.S. unrest:} Weeks of violent clashes between federal agents
and protesters in Portland, Ore., galvanized thousands to march through
the streets of U.S. cities over the weekend. In Seattle, the police
confronted a crowd of about 5,000 people, some of whom were setting
fires, they said. Officers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/protests-seattle-portland.html}{fired
flash grenades, and showered protesters with pepper spray}.

\textbf{Nantes fire:} A Rwandan refugee who volunteered at the
15th-century cathedral in France has confessed to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/world/europe/fire-nantes-cathedral-arrest.html}{setting
a fire that severely damaged the interior of the church} this month.
Prosecutors have charged him with arson.

\textbf{In memoriam:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/movies/olivia-de-havilland-dead.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Olivia
de Havilland}, an actress who gained movie immortality in ``Gone With
the Wind,'' died on Sunday in Paris. She was 104 and one of the last
surviving stars of Hollywood's fabled Golden Age.

\textbf{Paris deputy quits:} The longtime deputy mayor resigned on
Thursday, after protests over
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/world/europe/paris-deputy-mayor-resigns-matzneff.html}{his
links with Gabriel Matzneff}, a French writer once embraced by France's
elite who openly promoted pedophilia for decades.

Image

Credit...Umit Bektas/Reuters

\textbf{Snapshot:} Above, Muslim worshipers at the Hagia Sophia on
Friday in Istanbul. It was the first time in nearly nine decades that
the Byzantine structure opened
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/world/europe/turkey-hagia-sophia-mosque-prayers.html}{as
a working mosque}.

\textbf{What we're reading:}
\href{https://www.mediaite.com/news/monica-lewinsky-wins-i-have-a-joke-but-meme-with-hilarious-intern-themed-tweet/}{This
Mediaite collection of variations on a new Twitter meme}. ``I have a
joke about today's briefing, but let me just give you the punchline,''
writes the Briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell, with a wink.

\hypertarget{now-a-break-from-the-news}{%
\subsubsection{Now, a break from the
news}\label{now-a-break-from-the-news}}

Image

Credit...Michael Kraus for The New York Times

\textbf{Cook:}
\href{https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018818-fried-chicken-biscuits-with-hot-honey-butter?action=click\&region=Sam\%20Sifton\%27s\%20Suggestions\&rank=1}{Fried
chicken biscuits with hot honey butter} could be a weeknight dinner with
a side of greens, but they're also perfect for a picnic.

\textbf{Watch:}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/arts/television/muppets-now-disney.html}{``Muppets
Now,''} a new series on Disney+, is the latest attempt to take Kermit
the Frog and his fuzzy companions back to their anarchic sketch comedy
roots.

\textbf{Listen:} Taylor Swift, J. Cole, the Avalanches, Vusi Mahlasela
and others are on this week's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/arts/music/playlist-taylor-swift-j-cole-drake.html}{playlist
of the most notable new songs}, compiled by our pop critics.

\emph{Find more ideas on what to read, cook, watch in our}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home}{\emph{At Home
collection}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}{%
\subsubsection{And now for the Back Story on
\ldots{}}\label{and-now-for-the-back-story-on-}}

\hypertarget{a-pandemic-respite-for-times-correspondents}{%
\subsection{A pandemic respite for Times
correspondents}\label{a-pandemic-respite-for-times-correspondents}}

\emph{Stationed all over the world, foreign correspondents can feel
isolated. Alissa J. Rubin, our Baghdad bureau chief, wrote about}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/24/insider/international-journalists-meeting.html}{\emph{a
weekly call with colleagues}} \emph{that has helped them deal with the
pandemic. Here's an excerpt.}

At The New York Times, foreign correspondents are a disparate group. We
work in different countries, in different time zones, in wildly
different cultures.

Only rarely do we know our colleagues in other regions, and when we do
run into them, we often feel a bit shy talking to them --- what would
Bangkok and Warsaw have in common?

But the coronavirus changed that. It gave us common ground. In ways we
never could have anticipated, Covid-19 turned out to be a leveler --- of
differences between editors and reporters, Sinophiles and Europeanists,
newer reporters and ``old hands.''

What brought us closer together was a weekly group video meeting that
began as a result of a voluntary group session with a psychiatrist. The
idea was to help those far from home feel less anxious as the pandemic
spread to more and more of the countries where we lived and worked.

Image

Credit...Shawna X

We discuss the mundane, such as ordering food or which Netflix or Amazon
Prime series we are watching, but we also discuss the professional: the
pros and cons of working with sources through video; long-distance
transportation options (for those of us who can travel); where to stay
(hotel or Airbnb?).

And, because all of us are living the story that we are reporting,
sometimes we talk about the deeply personal, like writing frustrations
and strategies for avoiding depression during a lockdown (one
suggestion: have a call every day with a colleague).

Ernesto Londo√±o, the Rio de Janeiro bureau chief, offered advice on
meditation. Chris Buckley, a China correspondent who had been through a
draconian three-month lockdown in Wuhan, gave recommendations on
structuring our days and pacing ourselves when time seemed to fall into
a black hole.

Why do we keep showing up for this meeting? Because it has become our
town square, our group kitchen table, a place where we see people with
whom we share a way of life and can talk about all that we've lost
without being judged.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{quote}
That's it for this briefing. See you next time.

--- Isabella
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Thank you}\\
To Theodore Kim and Jahaan Singh for the break from the news. You can
reach the team at
\href{mailto:briefing+midnight@nytimes.com?subject=Briefing\%20Feedback}{briefing@nytimes.com}.

\textbf{P.S.}\\
‚Ä¢ We're listening to ``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/thedaily}{The
Daily}.'' Our latest episode is an examination of the truth, in a moment
when facts can seem malleable.\\
‚Ä¢ Here's today's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords/game/mini}{Mini Crossword
puzzle}, and a clue: ``Sesame Street'' muppet who lives in a trash can
(five letters). \href{https://www.nytimes.com/crosswords}{You can find
all our puzzles here}.\\
‚Ä¢ The media support network Study Hall published
\href{https://www.patreon.com/posts/how-choire-sicha-39592791}{a profile
of our Styles editor, Choire Sicha}, and his unusual route to The Times.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
