Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Massive United States-Saudi
Infrastructure Fund Struggles to Get Going

\url{https://nyti.ms/2H94FL8}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{massive-united-states-saudi-infrastructure-fund-struggles-to-get-going}{%
\section{Massive United States-Saudi Infrastructure Fund Struggles to
Get
Going}\label{massive-united-states-saudi-infrastructure-fund-struggles-to-get-going}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/05/business/05BLACKSTONE01/merlin_136383783_276dcf59-d599-421c-989d-c9d0e25a8381-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kate-kelly}{Kate Kelly}
and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/andrew-ross-sorkin}{Andrew
Ross Sorkin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 4, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Last May, the private equity firm Blackstone announced that it was
creating a \$40 billion fund that would invest in infrastructure
projects in the United States. The fund's largest backer was the
government of Saudi Arabia, which agreed to kick in half the cash.

Ten months later, the highly anticipated fund has yet to complete an
initial round of fund-raising, much less start investing in
infrastructure.

Although the Saudis promised to contribute up to \$20 billion,
Blackstone is required to raise a dollar from other investors for every
dollar the kingdom's Public Investment Fund puts in. So far, only two
other investors have publicly committed to the fund, with their
contributions totaling \$575 million, according to data provider Preqin,
which tracks such investments.

In the short term, Blackstone's goal now is to raise a total of \$15
billion --- much less than it trumpeted during President Trump's visit
to Riyadh last spring --- according to
\href{http://www.psers.pa.gov/About/Board/Resolutions/Documents/2018/res02.pdf}{a
document} posted on the website of a Pennsylvania pension plan that has
agreed to invest in the fund.

Facing hesitant investors, Blackstone has twice missed its own deadlines
for completing the first round of fund-raising, according to people
briefed on the plans and a timetable included in the Pennsylvania
pension plan's documents.

Among the factors that have complicated the fund's launch: Saudi
officials told Blackstone last year that they wanted to create an
investment committee --- including one or more Saudi representatives ---
that would oversee the fund, according to four people briefed on the
talks who weren't authorized to discuss them publicly.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/05/business/05BLACKSTONE/05BLACKSTONE-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The idea was a non-starter for Blackstone officials, who have
consistently avoided outside influence over their investment decisions,
said three of the people briefed on the talks.

``We've had a long and broad-based relationship with the Kingdom that's,
frankly, never been stronger,'' said Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman
for Blackstone. ``They've been exceptional partners.'' She declined to
discuss the details of the firm's fund-raising efforts, citing legal
restrictions that apply during marketing periods.

A spokesman for the kingdom's Public Investment Fund declined to
comment.

Blackstone --- whose co-founder and chief executive, Stephen A.
Schwarzman, is a prominent supporter of President Trump ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/08/19/business/the-benefits-of-standing-by-the-president.html}{rushed
to unveil the infrastructure fund} during the pomp-filled presidential
visit to Saudi Arabia last May. Wall Street titans including Mr.
Schwarzman attended opulent ceremonies to celebrate the two countries'
financial and political ties.

The deal fit neatly into the White House's efforts to coax foreign
countries to invest in the United States. Blackstone's president at the
time, Hamilton E. James, predicted that the fund would spur
infrastructure projects that would ``create well-paying American jobs
and will lay the foundation for stronger long-term economic growth.''

In the joint Blackstone-Saudi news release, H.E. Yasir Al Rumayyan, the
head of the Public Investment Fund, said that the \$20 billion Saudi
pledge ``reflects our positive views around the ambitious infrastructure
initiatives being undertaken in the United States as announced by
President Trump.''

The venture's \$40 billion target drew skepticism from Blackstone's
rival firms. But the company said it could pull it off. ``Blackstone has
the talent, scale and experience to be an effective private sector
partner in filling the massive infrastructure funding gap,'' Mr. James,
now executive vice chairman of the company, said in the announcement.

In public, Blackstone is sticking with its goals of creating an immense
fund and deepening its relationship with the Saudi regime, which has
drawn criticism for its human rights record.

``We're very confident in the long term we'll reach the \$40 billion
capacity,'' Mr. James told a group of reporters in February. He added
that Blackstone hoped to hit that target ``over the next decade or so.''

Image

Hamilton James, Blackstone's executive vice chairman. In February, Mr.
James said he was ``very confident'' Blackstone would hit its \$40
billion target for the fund.Credit...Christopher Goodney/Bloomberg

A week earlier, Mr. Schwarzman had
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2018/01/25/blackstone-ceo-schwarzman-saudi-arabia-reforms-are-extraordinary.html}{heaped
praise on Mohammed bin Salman}, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia who
chairs the kingdom's Public Investment Fund. When Prince Mohammed was in
New York last week, Mr. Schwarzman hosted a lunch for the prince at his
New York home.

Blackstone began contacting big institutional investors such as pension
funds last spring as it sought contributions to the fund. But some
balked at putting money in until Blackstone had a team in place to run
the infrastructure fund, according to a person briefed on the process.
Blackstone had promoted Sean Klimczak, a partner
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/blackstones-100-billion-bridge-and-tunnel-man-1495618203}{who
had brokered previous infrastructure investments}, to run the
infrastructure group around the time of the fund's unveiling. Other
hires took longer.

By February, the news release announcing the \$40 billion fund had
\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20180227170302/https://www.blackstone.com/media/press-releases/blackstone-to-launch-$40-billion-infrastructure-investment-vehicle-and-new-infrastructure-business}{disappeared
from Blackstone's website}, although a version remained on the Public
Investment Fund's site. (The release
\href{https://www.blackstone.com/media/press-releases/blackstone-to-launch-\%2440-billion-infrastructure-investment-vehicle-and-new-infrastructure-business}{reappeared}
on Blackstone's site on Wednesday after The Times asked about it.)

``They announced it with such fanfare and certainty, and clearly things
were dragging,'' said Colin C. Blaydon, director of the Center for
Private Equity and Entrepreneurship at the Tuck School of Business at
Dartmouth. ``I wondered what on earth was going on. If anybody ought to
be able to pull something like this off, you'd think Blackstone would be
the one to do it.''

The only two investors to firmly commit to the infrastructure fund,
according to Preqin, are the Pennsylvania Public School Employees'
Retirement System, which committed up to \$500 million in January, and
the Parochial Employees' Retirement System of Louisiana, which committed
\$75 million but was still finalizing the details.

``For us, I think it was a good fit,'' said Troy Searles, chief
investment officer of the Louisiana fund. He said he liked the idea of
focusing on North American infrastructure and thought Blackstone would
succeed.

Last month, Mr. Schwarzman mentioned the fund-raising efforts at a New
York investment conference with about 200 people in the room.

``We're raising other money,'' he said, according to a transcript of the
event. He invited anyone in the audience who was interested to come
forward after his speech. ``Don't be hesitant. Don't be embarrassed.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
