Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Michigan Voters Say Trump
Could See Their Problems `Right Off the Bat'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2erYLd1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{michigan-voters-say-trump-could-see-their-problems-right-off-the-bat}{%
\section{Michigan Voters Say Trump Could See Their Problems `Right Off
the
Bat'}\label{michigan-voters-say-trump-could-see-their-problems-right-off-the-bat}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/13/us/13FLIP-michigan3/13FLIP-michigan3-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/abby-goodnough}{Abby
Goodnough}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 12, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WARREN, Mich. --- This state was one of the biggest upsets in last
week's jolting election, going narrowly to Donald J. Trump and giving
the Republican Party its first victory in a presidential race here since
1988.

In Macomb County, just north of Detroit, where the term ``Reagan
Democrats'' was coined after white autoworkers abandoned the party for
Ronald Reagan in the 1980s, Mr. Trump captured 53.6 percent of the vote,
compared with 47.6 percent statewide, according to preliminary results.
Many of his supporters here were blue-collar Obama voters who saw
modern-day Republicans as out of touch with their interests until Mr.
Trump, with his brash outsider message, came along.

Chris Vitale, a longtime Chrysler employee and United Auto Workers
member, supported Barack Obama twice, as did his union and his county.
But on Tuesday, Mr. Vitale rejected the U.A.W.'s choice, Hillary
Clinton, and voted with gusto for Mr. Trump.

``The Republicans that generally get run are anti-manufacturing,
anti-Midwest,'' said Mr. Vitale, 44, of St. Clair Shores, explaining why
he rejected Mitt Romney in 2012 and Senator John McCain in 2008. ``Mr.
Trump understood our problems right off the bat, without being told by
anyone.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/13/us/13FLIP-michigan2/13FLIP-michigan2-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Macomb County's autoworkers were hardly alone in gravitating toward Mr.
Trump. Patricia Meadows, a retired waitress, voted for Mr. Obama in 2012
because she liked him, she said, and was hopeful about his health care
law. But this time around, Ms. Meadows had no use for Mrs. Clinton or
any candidate who had spent time in the nation's capital. Mr. Trump was
the lesser of two evils because he was ``not so political,'' she said.

``I think everybody in Washington needs a kick in the rear,'' Ms.
Meadows, 68, said on Thursday as she ate fried fish at a diner in
Warren, a weathered city at the county's southern end. ``And I think
Washington needs to be done with the Clintons.''

She added, however, that she hoped Mr. Trump would not ``do away with
the health care'' --- Mr. Obama's Affordable Care Act --- as he had
promised on the campaign trail. Her daughter had obtained subsidized
insurance coverage through the law for \$50 a month.

``I think he was bluffing,'' Ms. Meadows said with a frown.

Mayor James R. Fouts of Warren said Trump supporters here were
especially motivated by Mr. Trump's promise to overturn or overhaul the
North American Free Trade Agreement, which they blame for the loss of
American manufacturing jobs to Mexico. All year, Mr. Trump has attacked
Ford Motor Company in particular for planning to move all of its small
car production to Mexico.

Image

Kelly's Sports Bar and Grill in Warren, Mich., a city where many are
opposed to Nafta.Credit...Brittany Greeson for The New York Times

Noting that Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont also criticized free trade
agreements when he ran against Mrs. Clinton in the Democratic primary
race, Mr. Fouts said that some who normally vote Democrat in Macomb
County had initially supported Mr. Sanders and migrated to Mr. Trump
only after Mrs. Clinton became the Democratic nominee.

``There were a significant number of Sanders people who made the
transition to Trump,'' said Mr. Fouts, whose office is nonpartisan.
``Bernie might have won here; Joe Biden might have won. But Hillary was
never going to be the candidate to convince people around here that she
was going to make a difference in their lives.''

Mr. Fouts voted for Mr. Obama twice. But this time he rejected both Mrs.
Clinton and Mr. Trump for a third-party candidate --- which one, he
would not say.

The last time the county backed a Republican presidential candidate was
in 2004.

Mr. Trump may also have energized a segment of Macomb County voters who
had not bothered to participate in the 2012 election. Voter turnout in
the county was 4 percent higher this year, according to preliminary
results, with 67 percent of registered voters casting ballots. On the
other hand, some of the state's most heavily Democratic counties,
including Wayne, home to Detroit, and Genesee, home to Flint, saw less
turnout than four years ago.

Image

Amanda Rogers, a bartender and Trump voter in Warren, said she did not
agree with Hillary Clinton's immigration policies.Credit...Brittany
Greeson for The New York Times

Amanda Rogers, a bartender in Warren, sat out the 2012 election but
hustled to the polls to vote for Mr. Trump. Her boyfriend and her
brother voted for the first time in their lives, she said. Ms. Rogers,
34, was motivated in part by what she saw as Mrs. Clinton's lenient
stance on immigration.

``We are drowning right now,'' she said. ``Our vets are homeless.
There's one out of every five American children starving right now. And
Clinton wants to open the floodgates and let everybody else in.''

Ms. Rogers, who said she had ``loved Bill Clinton as a president'' and
found Mr. Obama ``all right,'' added: ``There's people who've been here
12 years who don't even care to learn the language but want to reap all
the benefits of this country: food stamps, free health care, Section 8
housing, welfare checks. People are sick of that, especially in Macomb
County.''

Muslims from places like Yemen and Bangladesh are the most visible
immigrants here. Just south of Macomb County is Hamtramck, which in one
generation went from overwhelmingly Polish Catholic to majority Muslim.
In Macomb, the City of Sterling Heights, home to a large Ford plant, is
facing a federal lawsuit after rejecting a proposed mosque last year.

Image

Jason Powrozek, 18, a high school senior from New Baltimore, Mich., said
of Mr. Trump: ``He tells it like it is.''Credit...Brittany Greeson for
The New York Times

Mr. Trump held a rally last Sunday in Sterling Heights, where he
elicited boos against Mrs. Clinton when he said she wanted ``virtually
unlimited immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world,''
and would ``import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism
into your schools and your communities.''

Macomb County, though still largely white, is becoming more diverse:
82.3 percent of its 865,000 residents were white in 2015, according to
the Census Bureau, down from 85.4 percent in 2010. The black population
grew to 11.4 percent, from 8.6 percent. About 10 percent of the
population is foreign born.

Many here also complain that poverty and crime are growing. As Macomb
helped assure Mr. Trump's victory on Election Day, it also played a
major role in the defeat of a local ballot initiative that would have
taxed its residents, and those of four neighboring counties, to build a
public transportation system connecting Detroit and its suburbs.

Jason Powrozek, 18, a high school senior from New Baltimore, on the more
affluent north side of the county, said he had voted against the
transportation measure because ``I just felt it would speed up the
transport of drugs up here from the inner city.'' A first-time voter, he
had volunteered for at the county Republican headquarters and went to
New York for the Trump campaign's election night party.

``He tells it like it is,'' Jason said of Mr. Trump. ``He speaks what
people don't want to say because it's politically incorrect.''

Mr. Trump also spoke on Halloween at Macomb Community College.

Frank Pitcher, 49, who lives in Sterling Heights and has worked at its
Ford plant for 23 years, went to the Trump rally there and said he was
surprised at how many of his co-workers he saw.

``I took some pictures with people there and posted on my Facebook
because I wasn't going to hide how I was voting,'' he said. ``I'm not
ashamed of where I stand.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
