Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}Mario Batali Exits His Restaurants

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HoQcNB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{mario-batali-exits-his-restaurants}{%
\section{Mario Batali Exits His
Restaurants}\label{mario-batali-exits-his-restaurants}}

A year after reports that the celebrity chef sexually assaulted and
harassed women, the Bastianich family and Mr. Batali's other partners
have bought out his stake and regrouped.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/03/07/dining/07batali-1/00batali-1-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julia-moskin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-julia-moskin/author-julia-moskin-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julia-moskin}{Julia Moskin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 6, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The 20-year partnership between the celebrity chef Mario Batali and the
Bastianich family of restaurateurs was formally dissolved on Wednesday,
more than a year after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/11/dining/mario-batali-sexual-misconduct.html}{several
women accused Mr. Batali of sexual harassment and assault}.

Mr. Batali ``will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way,
shape or form,'' said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will head day-to-day
operations at a new company, as yet unnamed, created to replace the
Batali \& Bastianich Hospitality Group.

The new company will operate the group's remaining 16 restaurants under
a new management and financial structure. Mrs. Bastianich Manuali and
her brother, Joe Bastianich, have bought Mr. Batali's shares in all the
restaurants. They would not discuss the terms of the buyout.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/21/dining/00batali-2/merlin_132371009_098edce4-74f5-469a-b5db-be903f24eb07-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Batali is also selling his shares in
\href{https://www.eataly.com/}{Eataly}, the fast-growing global chain of
luxury Italian supermarkets. ``Eataly is in the process of acquiring Mr.
Batali's minority interest in Eataly USA,'' said Chris Giglio, a
spokesman for that company.

Several famous chefs and restaurateurs have recently been accused of
sexual harassment, but Mr. Batali is the first to surrender all his
restaurants.

At its peak, Batali \& Bastianich encompassed dozens of restaurants and
food businesses in the United States, Italy, Singapore and Hong Kong.
Splashy restaurants like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/04/dining/babbo-review-pete-wells.html}{Babbo}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/06/dining/del-posto-restaurant-luxury.html}{Del
Posto} made celebrities of Mr. Batali and his primary partner, Mr.
Bastianich. Two other partners added luster to the operation: the
respected California chef
\href{https://la.eater.com/2017/12/12/16764984/mario-batali-sexual-harassment-nancy-silverton-reaction-statement-mozza-restaurant-group}{Nancy
Silverton} and Lidia Bastianich, Mr. Bastianich's mother, the chef and
owner of
\href{https://www.google.com/search?q=felidia+nyc\&oq=Felidia+ny\&aqs=chrome.0.0j69i57j0l4.2886j0j7\&sourceid=chrome\&ie=UTF-8}{Felidia},
in Manhattan, and a beloved authority on Italian cuisine.

Ms. Silverton and Ms. Bastianich will be partners in the new company,
along with Mr. Bastianich and Mrs. Bastianich Manuali. The four will
work together on corporate strategy, culture, talent development and
oversight across the businesses.

In December 2017,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/11/dining/mario-batali-sexual-misconduct.html}{news
accounts} of Mr. Batali's history of sexual aggression touched off
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/21/dining/mario-batali-sexual-assault.html}{police
investigations}, torpedoed his career and cast a shadow over all the
restaurants he was involved in. Reservations at Del Posto, the group's
luxurious Manhattan flagship, shrank as expense-account approvers shied
away from Mr. Batali's compromised reputation.

Six of the group's restaurants, in Las Vegas and East Asia, closed soon
afterward, when the Sands casino group ended its contracts with Batali
\& Bastianich. Others shuttered as the process of dismantling the
partnership dragged on. The group's newest restaurant, the ambitious and
expensive La Sirena, in the meatpacking district of Manhattan, closed in
December.

Since the scandal began, Mr. Bastianich has insisted that he was unaware
of Mr. Batali's sexual aggressions against women. In a statement on
Tuesday, he said: ``While I never saw or heard of Mario groping an
employee, I heard him say inappropriate things to our employees. Though
I criticized him for it from time to time, I should have done more. I
neglected my responsibilities as I turned my attention away from the
restaurants. People were hurt, and for this I am deeply sorry.''

But three former employees of the restaurant group, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because of Mr. Bastianich's power in the
restaurant business, said that they believed it was not possible that
Mr. Bastianich remained ignorant of serious misbehavior by Mr. Batali.
Throughout the industry, they
\href{https://ny.eater.com/2017/12/22/16809430/batali-bastianich-misconduct-restaurant-culture}{and
others} have said, both men were known for fostering a sexist, raucous
culture that ignored misconduct by male employees and demeaned female
workers. (Before the \#MeToo movement, however, that kind of atmosphere
was hardly unique to Batali \& Bastianich.)

Mr. Batali issued a statement on Wednesday morning: ``I have reached an
agreement with Joe and no longer have any stake in the restaurants we
built together. I wish him the best of luck in the future.'' He declined
requests for further comment.

Batali \& Bastianich was not a holding company and had no ownership; it
provided management services to all the restaurants in the group. Each
restaurant was, and will remain, independently operated and financed by
multiple parties.

As a result, Mr. Batali, 58, was never involved in
\href{https://felidia-nyc.com/}{Felidia} or the
\href{https://lidiasitaly.com/restaurants/}{Lidia's} restaurants, in
Pittsburgh and Kansas City. Ms. Silverton, 64, is involved only in the
group's five California restaurants: \href{https://chispacca.com/}{Chi
Spacca}, \href{https://osteriamozza.com/}{Osteria Mozza} and three
variations on the Mozza theme. At \href{https://becco-nyc.com/}{Becco},
which Mr. Bastianich opened in New York's theater district in 1992 after
a short career as a bond trader, his grandmother, Erminia, is an
investor. (She is now 101 years old, and has recouped her initial
stake.)

Although Mrs. Bastianich Manuali, who will run the newly created group,
has never had a public role in Batali \& Bastianich, she has long
managed their mother's restaurants. She also co-wrote seven of her
mother's cookbooks and has been a producer on her television series
since 2006.

``I never planned to come back,'' said Mrs. Bastianich Manuali, who
holds a doctorate in art history from Oxford University. ``The pull of a
family business can be strong.''

The new agreement returns control of the restaurants to the family, who
have been working together since the 1970s, when Lidia Bastianich and
her husband, Felice Bastianich, opened their first Italian restaurants,
in Queens. Their children helped out from the time they were old enough
to fold napkins. (Felice Bastianich died in 2010.)

Image

Tanya Bastianich Manuali will head day-to-day operations for the new
restaurant group.Credit...Diana DeLucia

Now, Mrs. Bastianich Manuali, 46, will be in charge of operations across
the group, a position that did not exist before. ``We need to blow the
dust off,'' she said in an interview, gesturing to the battalion of
elegantly uniformed servers at Del Posto. ``These people have been
living under a cloud long enough.''

As part of the reorganization, Melissa Rodriguez, Del Posto's executive
chef, and Jeff Katz, its longtime general manager, have become
stakeholders in that restaurant, a precious reward that encourages
loyalty and motivation. (The chefs Dave Pasternack at Esca in Midtown
Manhattan and Andy Nusser at the three Tarry Lodge restaurants in
Westchester and Connecticut already have ownership shares.)

Ms. Rodriguez was trained by her predecessor, Mark Ladner, Del Posto's
original chef; she is the first woman other than Ms. Bastianich to hold
that position in any of the group's New York restaurants.

``It will be good not to be a black spot on the map any longer,'' Mr.
Katz said.

Asked whether she regretted opening the family business to Mr. Batali,
Ms. Bastianich, 72, said only, ``Everything was done with the best
intentions.''

Mr. Bastianich, 50, did acknowledge regret about having spent much of
the last decade away from the restaurants that he and Mr. Batali had
opened together. His professional attention has shifted to Italy, where
he has been a judge on nine seasons of the blockbuster cooking show
``MasterChef.'' He has vineyards in Friuli, a residence in Milan, and
has appeared in Italian commercials for McDonald's and Alitalia.

In the early years of the partnership, Mr. Batali and Ms. Bastianich
were the media stars, with Mr. Bastianich operating behind the scenes.
``As a 200-pound bald guy I was in the shadow of Mario, in the shadow of
my mom,'' he said.

But, he said, after he became a runner, then a marathoner, then a
triathlete, he gained confidence --- and opportunities for fame that
took him elsewhere. ``I just wasn't around,'' he said. ``That was a
mistake.''

The restaurants, most of them operating under longtime Batali \&
Bastianich chefs and managers, ran smoothly enough, except for some
lawsuits over
\href{https://dinersjournal.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/24/del-posto-to-pay-1-15-million-to-settle-workers-suit/}{wages,
tips} and sexual harassment (not by Mr. Batali).

When Mr. Batali and Mr. Bastianich met in 1993, Mr. Batali was the chef
at tiny Pó in the West Village, where his loose, modern Italian dishes
packed the house every night. Ms. Bastianich had introduced him to her
son, who was equally passionate about Italian food, wine
and\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/culture/2012/04/joe-bastianich-restaurant-man-book-excerpt-mario-batali-stoned-babbo}{late-night
carousing}.

In 1998, they opened
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1998/08/26/dining/restaurants-a-radical-departure-with-sure-footing.html}{Babbo},
which was an immediate hit for its big-flavored food, classic rock
playlist and energetic atmosphere. (With its Michelin star and longtime
popularity, Babbo has been least affected by Mr. Batali's fall, Mr.
Bastianich said.)

Nearly 20 years later, the business they built together began to implode
in just two days, when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/12/dining/ken-friedman-sexual-harassment.html}{The
New York Times} and
\href{https://ny.eater.com/2017/12/11/16759540/mario-batali-sexual-misconduct-allegations}{Eater}
published back-to-back articles in which women described a longtime
pattern of sexual harassment and assault by Mr. Batali. The most serious
incidents were said to have taken place both at the group's restaurants
and other places, including
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/20/dining/mario-batali-spotted-pig.html}{the
Spotted Pig}, in the West Village, where Mr. Batali was a regular and an
investor. (Mr. Bastianich is also an investor in the Spotted Pig.)

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/12/12/dining/ken-friedman-sexual-harassment.html}{\emph{Read
more about the allegations of sexual harassment and assault by Mario
Batali.}}\emph{{]}}

Mr. Batali said he didn't recall all the reported episodes, but quickly
apologized and stepped away from restaurant operations. He was fired
from ``The Chew,'' ABC's daily food-and-talk show, which was
subsequently canceled. In January, New York police officials confirmed
that the department
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/08/dining/mario-batali-sexual-assault-no-charges-nypd.html}{had
closed three investigations} into sexual assault charges against him,
for lack of evidence.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/08/dining/mario-batali-sexual-assault-no-charges-nypd.html}{\emph{Read
more about the police investigations here.}}\emph{{]}}

Mr. Batali has made no public comments on the allegations since December
2017. After
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/dining/mario-batali-sexual-harassment.html}{a
few much-criticized moments} back in the public eye, he is said to be
living with his family at the house they own in northern Michigan.

The new restaurant group's first venture will be The Barish, a
steakhouse in the newly restored Hollywood Roosevelt hotel in Los
Angeles. The restaurant's name refers to Ms. Silverton's forebears, who
were cattle ranchers in Saskatchewan, Canada, at the turn of the 20th
century.

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get regular
updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and
shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
