Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Trump Administration
Restricts Entry Into U.S. From China

\url{https://nyti.ms/2vzWnu1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-administration-restricts-entry-into-us-from-china}{%
\section{Trump Administration Restricts Entry Into U.S. From
China}\label{trump-administration-restricts-entry-into-us-from-china}}

The travel disruption sent shocks through the stock market and rattled
industries that depend on the flow of goods and people between the
world's two largest economies.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/31/business/31CHINA-TRAVEL-HFO/merlin_168164580_cfaa2942-db55-430f-8c09-26ad29a06d9b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-michael-corkery/author-michael-corkery-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{Michael
Corkery} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 31, 2020Updated Feb. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/02/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{\emph{Read
about the latest developments in the coronavirus outbreak here}}\emph{.}

Moving to counter the spreading
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/china-coronavirus-philippines-travel.html}{coronavirus}
outbreak, the Trump administration said Friday that it would bar entry
by most foreign nationals who had recently visited China and put some
American
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/china-coronavirus-philippines-travel.html}{travelers}
under a quarantine as it declared a rare public health emergency.

The temporary restrictions followed announcements by American Airlines,
Delta Air Lines and United Airlines that they would suspend air service
between the United States and China for several months.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/10/business/china-coronavirus-philippines-travel.html}{travel}
disruption sent shocks through the stock market and rattled industries
that depend on the flow of goods and people between the world's two
largest economies. Planning was upended for companies across a vast
global supply chain, from Apple to John Deere, the tractor company.

The S\&P 500 suffered its worst loss since October, falling 1.8 percent,
as the spread of the virus --- and the increasingly urgent efforts by
companies and governments to contain it --- fanned fears of an economic
slowdown.

The government travel restrictions, which will take effect on Sunday
evening, were announced by Alex Azar, the secretary of health and human
services, who declared that the coronavirus posed ``a public health
emergency in the United States.''

The administration's action will restrict all foreign nationals who have
been to China in the past 14 days from entering the United States. The
restriction does not include immediate family members of American
citizens and permanent residents. Nearly three million Chinese residents
traveled to the United States in 2018, according to
\href{https://travel.trade.gov/view/m-2017-I-001/index.asp}{federal data
based on travel records}.

The travel restrictions and the airline's announcements showed how
rapidly concerns about the virus have escalated into a grave test of the
global economy, for which there is no recent precedent. Three weeks
after the first virus-related death was reported, China has found itself
increasingly cut off from its biggest trading partner, the United
States, and many other nations.

Chinese officials said on Saturday that there had been an additional 46
deaths in the country, the most so far in a 24-hour period, raising the
death toll to 259. It said confirmed infections had grown to nearly
12,000, from 1,300 a week earlier.

About 100 cases have been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/01/nyregion/coronavirus-new-york-city.html}{confirmed
across 21 other countries}, including seven reported cases in the United
States. Russia, Italy and Britain each reported their first infections
on Friday, two from each country. The four patients in Italy and Russia
were Chinese citizens, the authorities there said; Britain did not
release any details.

To address the outbreak, China has extended the Lunar New Year holiday,
which was to have ended Thursday, into next week. In cities across the
country,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/world/asia/china-wuhan-coronavirus.html?searchResultPosition=2}{including
those far from the center of the outbreak}, there were eerie scenes
Friday of all-but-empty streets and highways, closed shops, trains
without passengers and nearly deserted public spaces that are normally
packed.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fox-corporations-plunging-profit-is-cushioned-by-fox-news}{21m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fox-corporations-plunging-profit-is-cushioned-by-fox-news}{Fox
Corporation's plunging profit is cushioned by Fox News.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trading-in-kodak-shares-comes-under-scrutiny}{45m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trading-in-kodak-shares-comes-under-scrutiny}{Trading
in Kodak shares comes under scrutiny.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#disney-lost-4-7-billion-last-quarter-but-its-newest-business-was-a-big-hit}{2h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#disney-lost-4-7-billion-last-quarter-but-its-newest-business-was-a-big-hit}{Disney
lost \$4.7 billion last quarter, but its newest business was a big hit.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

The slowdown in activity has raised fears that essential supplies,
including food, will run short, which the government insists it will not
allow to happen.

And it is unclear when China's economic engine --- a huge producer of
both consumer goods and industrial components --- might return to
anything resembling normal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/31/business/31airlines-travel5/merlin_168168660_4a39e5f9-f2ff-4fe2-862c-90f1de751ec0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

A traveler checking for departure information on a screen at
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.Credit...David Ryder for The New
York Times

Many companies said they were relatively well positioned for the
disruption, thanks in part to the recent easing of the trade tensions
between China and the United States. Faced with the threat of tariffs,
many companies --- particularly retailers --- had stocked up on imports
from China, or found suppliers in other parts of Asia.

But if the restrictions in China are kept in place for many months and
the virus keeps spreading, profits will suffer.

Forsake, a footwear company based in Boston, has most of its supply
chain and production facility in Zhongshan in southeastern China. The
company received its spring orders before the annual holiday closing and
is stocked through July. After that, said Sam Barstow, the president and
chief operating officer, who knows?

``We don't really know what we're planning for,'' Mr. Barstow said.

Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said on an earnings call this week
that many of its suppliers' factories in China would remain closed until
Feb. 10.

Apple had closed one retail store in China, and said traffic into its
stores across China had decreased in recent days. Apple is frequently
``deep cleaning'' its stores and regularly checking the temperature of
its employees there, Mr. Cook said.

The airlines are also braced for prolonged turmoil. American said all of
its flights between the United States and mainland China were being
suspended immediately, through March 27.

United and Delta said their flights on those routes would be suspended
by next Thursday. United said it expected to resume operations on March
28, while Delta said its suspension would last through April 30. The
three airlines accounted for more than a third of all travel between
China and the United States in 2018.

In 2018, more than 8.5 million passengers traveled between the United
States and China, according to data from the United States
Transportation Department. Most flew on a handful of Chinese airlines,
none of which immediately responded to requests for comment Friday on
any plans to halt or modify service.

The coronavirus has already sickened more people than the outbreak of
the SARS virus did in the eight-month outbreak of 2002 and 2003.

The SARS outbreak coincided with a relatively brief slowdown of global
growth in early 2003, which was followed by a sharp rebound.

SARS, however, is an imperfect comparison because at the time China
represented just 5 percent of the global economy. In 2019, China
accounted for about 18 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase economists.

``The much larger role of China in the global economy versus 2003
implies much greater global spillover risks,'' the bank wrote in a
research note on Friday.

On Wednesday, the JPMorgan Chase economists cut their forecast for
Chinese economic growth sharply for the first quarter to incorporate the
impact of the virus. They now expect that the Chinese economy will grow
at an annualized rate of 4.9 percent in the first quarter, down from the
6.3 percent pace they previously predicted.

The new forecasts reflect the expectation of sharp decelerations in
retail sales, industrial production and business investment. But the
forecast also calls for a strong rebound in economic activity in the
second quarter, as the impact of the outbreak dissipates.

Concerns about global growth have pushed the benchmark American oil
price below \$52 a barrel, from more than \$60 at the start of the year,
and have sent the shares of energy companies lower. Tech stocks have
also suffered, with particular weakness in the semiconductor sector,
which is closely linked to supply chains based in and around China.

Image

Delta said its suspension of flights between China and the United States
would last through April 30.~Credit...David Ryder for The New York Times

On Thursday, the State Department raised its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/world/asia/Coronavirus-travel-advisory-.html}{travel
advisory} to Level 4 --- ``Do not travel'' --- a rating reserved for
situations in which the government expects to have very limited ability
to help citizens abroad. The World Health Organization declared a global
health emergency because of the spreading virus, though it opposed
restrictions on travel or trade with China.

Mr. Azar, the United States health secretary, and other members of a
Trump administration task force emphasized on Friday that the current
risk to the American public from the coronavirus was low.

But the drastic travel restriction suggested that the risks in the
United States could grow quickly and unpredictably.

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, said at a Washington briefing that the actions
were being taken because there were ``a lot of unknowns'' surrounding
the virus and its transmission path. Unlike influenza, which is fairly
predictable in terms of infection and mortality, Dr. Fauci said there
was not the same certainty about the rate and path of the coronavirus
transmission.

``The number of cases have steeply inclined with every day,'' Dr. Fauci
said.

In addition to the restrictions on foreign nationals traveling from
China, the United States will begin funneling all flights from China to
just a few airports, including Kennedy International in New York, O'Hare
in Chicago and San Francisco International.

Officials said any American citizen returning to the United States from
the Hubei Province in China, where the outbreak is centered, would be
subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine. Any American returning
to the country who has visited the rest of mainland China within the
last 14 days will undergo proactive health screening at selective ports
of entry.

The government also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/health/quarantine-coronavirus.html}{imposed
a two-week quarantine} on 195 people who were evacuated on Wednesday
from Wuhan, China, to a California military base.

Some public health and policy experts said the restrictions announced
Friday, weeks after the virus was discovered in China, might not do as
much officials hoped in containing the contagion.

At this point, sharply curtailing air travel to and from China is more
of an emotional or political reaction, said Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, an
epidemiologist and director of the Center for Infectious Disease
Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota.

``The cow's already out of the barn,'' he said, ''and we're now talking
about shutting the barn door.''

Reporting was contributed by Matt Phillips, Patricia Cohen, Niraj
Chokshi, Jack Nicas, Knvul Sheikh, Russell Goldman, Chris Buckley,
Elaine Yu, Richard C. Paddock, Richard Perez-Peña, Elisabetta Povoledo
and Jason Horowitz.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
