Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}On Abortion Rights, 2020
Democrats Move Past `Safe, Legal and Rare'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QRtfaj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{on-abortion-rights-2020-democrats-move-past-safe-legal-and-rare}{%
\section{On Abortion Rights, 2020 Democrats Move Past `Safe, Legal and
Rare'}\label{on-abortion-rights-2020-democrats-move-past-safe-legal-and-rare}}

The Democratic presidential candidates don't want to simply defend
abortion rights. They want to go on offense.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/27/us/politics/25abortion-survey/merlin_155208633_52ac885f-4fc5-4453-a924-ca6440d150fe-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-maggie-astor/author-maggie-astor-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 25, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The Democratic presidential field has coalesced around an abortion
rights agenda more far-reaching than anything past nominees have
proposed, according to a New York Times survey of the campaigns. The
positions reflect a hugely consequential shift on one of the country's
most politically divisive issues.

Every candidate The Times surveyed supports codifying Roe v. Wade in
federal law, allowing Medicaid coverage of abortion by repealing the
Hyde Amendment, and removing funding restrictions for organizations that
provide abortion referrals. Almost all of them say they would nominate
only judges who support abortion rights, an explicit pledge Democrats
have long avoided.

Very few support restrictions on abortions late in pregnancy. Seven say
abortion pills should be available over the counter. Nine want a federal
approval process for state abortion laws. And Joseph R. Biden Jr., whose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/29/us/politics/biden-abortion-rights.html}{ambivalence
on abortion rights} has been a theme for decades, is seeking to recast
himself as a full-throated champion of them.

The 2020 candidates' responses reflect a fundamental change in the
Democratic Party's approach to reproductive issues. In other areas, from
health care to taxes, there is a divide between liberal and moderate
candidates. Here, it is minimal.

``What you've seen is that it's no longer O.K. for any candidate just to
say they're pro-choice,'' said Jacqueline Ayers, vice president for
government relations and public policy at Planned Parenthood. ``They're
being very specific on how our rights are under attack, how access to
abortion is being undermined in this country, and putting forth plans to
protect and expand rights.''

With
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/abortion-laws-states.html}{several
states passing near-total bans on abortion}, and with the first Supreme
Court majority in a generation that could overturn Roe v. Wade, the
Democratic candidates are at once agreeing that abortion rights require
a more forceful defense, and concluding that defense is not enough.

The ramifications are hard to predict. The public is strongly supportive
of Roe v. Wade, but deeply divided on how accessible abortion should be
beyond Roe's basic protections. President Trump has shown that he is
willing to weaponize abortion to turn out his base, including through
misleading or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/26/health/abortion-bill-trump.html}{outright
false narratives}. And historically, abortion has been a bigger
motivator for conservative voters than liberals.

Whether any of this changes in 2020 will depend, in part, on how the
Democratic nominee talks about abortion rights, particularly in
battleground states like Pennsylvania and Wisconsin where many swing
voters are not as far to the left on abortion as the candidates.

``You can't rule out that it could become an issue,'' said Terry
Madonna, director of the Franklin \& Marshall College Poll in
Pennsylvania, ``depending on the candidate and to what degree they move
it forward as an issue.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\hypertarget{a-basic-reframing}{%
\subsection{A basic reframing}\label{a-basic-reframing}}

The most striking change, beyond individual policies, is how
unapologetic candidates' tone on abortion rights has become.

Advocates have traditionally said they support the right to choose
abortion, not abortion itself, and Democrats have said it should be
``safe, legal and rare.'' Public debate has commonly centered on
procedures after 20 weeks' gestation, which account for less than 1.5
percent of abortions. The discussion has often been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/16/us/politics/abortion-republicans-democrats.html}{on
opponents' terms}.

Now, almost every candidate says the next president should actively
reframe the debate. Their language focuses on health care, bodily
autonomy and, at times, even the idea of abortion as a positive force
enabling women to control their lives and increase their economic
security.

``Abortion is health care, and health care is a human right,'' Elizabeth
Warren wrote in her survey response.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/abortion-rights-debate.html?}{In
the last debate}, she argued that abortion rights were ``also economic
rights.''

Only Tulsi Gabbard, Joe Sestak and Marianne Williamson now say abortion
should be ``safe, legal and rare'' --- a phrase, popularized by
President Bill Clinton and repeated by Hillary Clinton, that reflected a
search for common ground with people not fully supportive of abortion
rights.

The rest of the 2020 candidates sidestepped or rejected the ``rare''
part. Bernie Sanders, for instance, wrote, ``Abortion should be safe,
legal and accessible to every person who chooses it.''

Asked if they supported restrictions after 24 weeks --- roughly when a
healthy fetus can survive outside the womb, though viability varies from
pregnancy to pregnancy --- only Mr. Sestak said yes. (Ms. Gabbard, who
did not complete the survey, has also said she supports restrictions in
the third trimester.) Several candidates emphasized that less than 1
percent of abortions happen that late, often because of life-threatening
conditions or severe fetal abnormalities.

Amy Klobuchar's campaign did not fully answer the question, saying she
believed ``any restrictions must be consistent with Roe v. Wade.''

Roe allowed near-total bans in the third trimester as long as there was
an exception for life- or health-threatening situations. Planned
Parenthood v. Casey replaced the trimester framework with one based on
viability, which can start in the late second trimester.

\hypertarget{an-emboldened-defense}{%
\subsection{An emboldened defense}\label{an-emboldened-defense}}

For years, the battle over the Supreme Court has been conducted in code.
Republicans denounced ``judicial activism'' and Democrats called for
justices who would ``respect precedent'' --- that they were talking
about one precedent in particular remaining unsaid.

Not anymore.

In May, Kirsten Gillibrand
\href{https://medium.com/team-gillibrand/i-will-only-nominate-judges-who-will-uphold-roe-v-wade-and-protect-reproductive-rights-daa1b24ed81b}{vowed}
to nominate only judges  who would uphold Roe v. Wade. Though she is no
longer in the race, her pledge is: All of the candidates who completed
the survey said they would ``require judicial nominees to support Roe v.
Wade as settled law.''

Mr. Biden's campaign brought up
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/07/us/politics/joe-biden-bork-supreme-court.html}{his
role} in blocking Robert Bork's confirmation to the Supreme Court in
1987, which probably would have meant the end of Roe. Mr. Biden's
objections then were more about birth control than abortion --- but his
eagerness now to play up the latter is telling of how profoundly the
Democratic terrain has shifted.

Also telling is that the candidates are not solely talking about
preserving Roe: In an acknowledgment that the Supreme Court might have
enough votes to dismantle it, they all
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/17/us/politics/alabama-abortion-law-democrats-roe.html}{support
legislation} to codify its protections.

Every candidate who responded wanted to ban states' so-called TRAP laws
(an acronym for targeted regulations of abortion providers). These
measures --- requirements that providers have hospital admitting
privileges, for instance, or that hallways be a certain width --- don't
technically restrict abortions but have the effect of making it harder
for clinics to remain open.

And a majority endorsed a federal preclearance requirement for state
abortion laws, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/28/us/politics/kamala-harris-abortion.html}{Ms.
Harris proposed in May}. Only Andrew Yang and Joe Sestak definitively
rejected it.

Democratic candidates who support

requiring preclearance for state

abortion laws

Cory

Booker

Kamala

Harris

Michael

Bennet

Pete

Buttigieg

Amy

Klobuchar

Marianne

Williamson

Bernie

Sanders

Tom

Steyer

Elizabeth

Warren

Those who do not

Joe

Sestak

Andrew

Yang

No answer

John

Delaney

Tulsi

Gabbard

Joseph R.

Biden Jr.

Steve

Bullock

Julián

Castro

Democratic candidates who support requiring preclearance

for state abortion laws

Cory

Booker

Kamala

Harris

Bernie

Sanders

Tom

Steyer

Michael

Bennet

Pete

Buttigieg

Amy

Klobuchar

Marianne

Williamson

Elizabeth

Warren

Those who do not

Joe

Sestak

Andrew

Yang

No answer

John

Delaney

Tulsi

Gabbard

Joseph R.

Biden Jr.

Steve

Bullock

Julián

Castro

By The New York Times

Preclearance, which would block the laws in question until the Justice
Department approved them, could stop TRAP laws as well as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/07/20/us/mississippi-abortion-restrictions.html}{waiting
periods and mandatory ultrasounds}. It would also pre-empt bans like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/29/us/alabama-abortion-ban.html}{Alabama's}
and laws like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/01/us/Georgia-abortion-law.html}{Georgia's}
(both blocked by courts for now) that forbid abortion after six or eight
weeks, before many women know they are pregnant.

\hypertarget{a-shift-to-offense}{%
\subsection{A shift to offense}\label{a-shift-to-offense}}

The idea of expanding abortion rights, not just maintaining them, was in
the wings of the debate until recently. Now, it is center stage.

Like every Democratic president in the past 35 years, the candidates
(except Ms. Gabbard) have all pledged to repeal the Mexico City policy,
or global gag rule, which blocks foreign aid to organizations that
provide abortion referrals or promote abortion rights. All of them want
to undo
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/22/health/trump-defunds-planned-parenthood.html}{President
Trump's Title X rules}, which similarly restrict family planning funding
for organizations within the United States.

But they have also gone further. All of them want to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/07/us/politics/what-is-the-hyde-amendment.html}{repeal
the Hyde Amendment}, which blocks Medicaid coverage for abortion in most
circumstances. Twelve want to repeal the Helms Amendment, which has
prevented foreign aid from being used to cover abortions since 1973.
(Mr. Biden's campaign did not answer that question.)

Nine candidates want to require private insurers to cover abortion,
though Mr. Biden's campaign again declined to answer, Ms. Klobuchar said
she was unsure and Mr. Sestak said no.

And seven said the drugs misoprostol and mifepristone, which induce
abortions, should be available over the counter.

Democratic candidates who support making

abortion pills available over the counter

Cory

Booker

Tom

Steyer

Elizabeth

Warren

Michael

Bennet

Pete

Buttigieg

Marianne

Williamson

Andrew

Yang

Those who are unsure

Joe

Sestak

Amy

Klobuchar

No answer

John

Delaney

Tulsi

Gabbard

Joseph R.

Biden Jr.

Steve

Bullock

Julián

Castro

Kamala

Harris

Bernie

Sanders

Democratic candidates who support making

abortion pills available over the counter

Cory

Booker

Marianne

Williamson

Tom

Steyer

Elizabeth

Warren

Andrew

Yang

Michael

Bennet

Pete

Buttigieg

Those who are unsure

Joe

Sestak

Amy

Klobuchar

No answer

Kamala

Harris

John

Delaney

Tulsi

Gabbard

Bernie

Sanders

Joseph R.

Biden Jr.

Steve

Bullock

Julián

Castro

By The New York Times

This would be a major leap from current policy, which restricts the
drugs' availability even by prescription, and would require multiple
legal and regulatory changes. But if enacted, it would make it
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/01/science/abortion-supreme-court-trump.html}{much
harder to effectively ban abortion}.

\hypertarget{betting-on-public-opinion}{%
\subsection{Betting on public opinion}\label{betting-on-public-opinion}}

A common thread in the candidates' answers was a firm belief that the
public is on their side.

Whether that is true is a complicated question, likely to play out next
year as many elections since 2016 have --- in the growing chasm between
rural and suburban voters.

``A lot of his white, working-class voters are not in favor of
abortion,'' Mr. Madonna said of the president, but ``suburban voters
tend to be more liberal on a whole array of cultural issues.''

On the basic tenet that Roe v. Wade should stay, Democrats are on solid
ground: Polls show that anywhere from 60 percent to more than 75 percent
of Americans support Roe.

But there is much less support --- 20 to 30 percent, generally --- for
making abortion always legal, as the candidates advocate. That's more
popular than making it always illegal, but
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/1576/Abortion.aspx}{most Americans
are in between}.

Even among Democrats,
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/246278/abortion-trends-party.aspx}{according
to Gallup}, ``legal under any circumstances'' is a minority position,
ranging from 39 to 46 percent in the past couple of years. Among
independents, that number is about 25 percent.

So it is noteworthy that, in a historically large field, there is little
differentiation among the candidates on abortion rights --- even among
the more moderate candidates who, on other issues, have emphasized
courting swing voters.

``They're setting the tone that this is something we should own
proudly,'' said Ilyse Hogue, president of NARAL Pro-Choice America,
``and not just react to when something happens.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{HOW WE COLLECTED THE DATA}

The New York Times sent a survey to 16 Democratic candidates on Nov. 5.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/25/us/politics/democratic-candidates-abortion-survey.html}{Eleven
completed it.} For those who did not --- Steve Bullock, Julián Castro,
John Delaney, Tulsi Gabbard and Kamala Harris --- we examined publicly
available information from policy papers, debates and interviews.

The survey was conducted before Michael R. Bloomberg and Deval Patrick
entered the race.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
