Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Detailed Maps of the Donors
Powering the 2020 Democratic Campaigns

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SYJkKi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Detailed Maps of the Donors Powering the 2020 Democratic
Campaigns}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@nytimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{detailed-maps-of-the-donors-powering-the-2020-democratic-campaigns}{%
\section{Detailed Maps of the Donors Powering the 2020 Democratic
Campaigns}\label{detailed-maps-of-the-donors-powering-the-2020-democratic-campaigns}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/josh-katz}{Josh Katz},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kk-rebecca-lai}{K.K. Rebecca Lai},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel Shorey} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan}Aug. 2,
2019

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{355}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{candidates-with-the-most-individual-donors}{%
\subsubsection{Candidates with the most individual
donors}\label{candidates-with-the-most-individual-donors}}

\hypertarget{darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-estimated-donors}{%
\paragraph{Darker shades on the map indicate a greater share of
estimated
donors.}\label{darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-estimated-donors}}

1. Sanders

746,000

1. Sanders

746,000

2. Warren

421,000

2. Warren

421,000

3. Buttigieg

390,000

3. Buttigieg

390,000

4. Harris

277,000

4. Harris

277,000

5. Biden

256,000

5. Biden

256,000

6. O'Rourke

188,000

6. O'Rourke

188,000

Note: Data is through June 30.

Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has a huge lead over other Democratic
presidential candidates in the number of individual donors they have
each accumulated so far.

This is the first time since the primary race began in earnest that we
can estimate how many individual donors each candidate has attracted ---
a key indicator of how much they are catching on with voters.

Mr. Sanders is relying heavily on small donors to power his campaign,
and he entered the 2020 race with a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/09/us/politics/2020-democrats-campaign-funding.html}{huge
network of online donors} who supported his 2016 presidential bid. The
map above shows the breadth of Mr. Sanders's roster of donors across the
United States.

A map that includes the rest of the Democratic field without Mr. Sanders
offers a picture of where the other major candidates are picking up
donors. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, the other leading
progressive in the race, is outpacing the rest of the field across much
of the country --- a sign that her strategy of relying on grass-roots
donors, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/25/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-donors-fundraising.html?module=inline}{refraining
from holding high-dollar fund-raisers}, is working.

\hypertarget{candidates-with-the-most-individual-donors-when-sanders-is-excluded}{%
\subsubsection{Candidates with the most individual donors when Sanders
is
excluded}\label{candidates-with-the-most-individual-donors-when-sanders-is-excluded}}

\hypertarget{where-bernie-sanders-is-leading-the-runner-up-is-shown-darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-estimated-donors}{%
\paragraph{Where Bernie Sanders is leading, the runner-up is shown.
Darker shades on the map indicate a greater share of estimated
donors.}\label{where-bernie-sanders-is-leading-the-runner-up-is-shown-darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-estimated-donors}}

1. Sanders

746,000

1. Sanders

746,000

2. Warren

421,000

2. Warren

421,000

3. Buttigieg

390,000

3. Buttigieg

390,000

4. Harris

277,000

4. Harris

277,000

5. Biden

256,000

5. Biden

256,000

6. O'Rourke

188,000

6. O'Rourke

188,000

The map also shows regional strength for some candidates, like former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who is doing well in Delaware and
northeastern Pennsylvania, as well as in many places across the
Southeast. Senator Kamala Harris of California is formidable in her home
state, the nation's most populous. And Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South
Bend, Ind., has drawn strong support in some parts of the Midwest.

Attracting individual donors has been particularly important in the 2020
race because the Democratic National Committee is using grass-roots
fund-raising as one of the qualification standards for the debates. To
qualify for the next round of debates in September, candidates will need
to have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/08/01/us/politics/next-democratic-debate.html}{at
least 130,000 unique donors}, in addition to meeting a polling
requirement.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{See
which Democrats are leading the 2020 presidential race}\emph{.{]}}

While the campaigns have been required to reveal
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/07/16/us/politics/democratic-fundraising-2020.html}{their
overall fund-raising totals}, and many have released information about
their number of donors, it has not been possible until now to estimate
how many donors each Democratic candidate has attracted.

Our analysis is based in part on fund-raising records disclosed on
Wednesday by ActBlue, an online fund-raising platform that processes
donations for the Democratic candidates.

While the number of donors is especially important in the 2020 primary
race, the amount of money that campaigns raise is ultimately what allows
them to pay the bills. By that measure as well, Mr. Sanders leads in
large parts of the country.

\hypertarget{candidates-who-have-raised-the-most-money}{%
\subsubsection{Candidates who have raised the most
money}\label{candidates-who-have-raised-the-most-money}}

\hypertarget{darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-money-raised}{%
\paragraph{Darker shades on the map indicate a greater share of money
raised.}\label{darker-shades-on-the-map-indicate-a-greater-share-of-money-raised}}

1. Sanders

\$36 million

1. Sanders

\$36 million

2. Buttigieg

\$32 million

2. Buttigieg

\$32 million

3. Warren

\$25 million

3. Warren

\$25 million

4. Harris

\$24 million

4. Harris

\$24 million

5. Biden

\$22 million

5. Biden

\$22 million

6. O'Rourke

\$13 million

6. O'Rourke

\$13 million

Over all, Mr. Sanders is leading his rivals in total money raised, but
not by a huge margin --- even though he has far more donors than any of
them.

Most other candidates are drawing in more dollars per donor --- an
estimated average of roughly \$80 for both Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, for
example. Mr. Sanders, on the other hand, has brought in an estimated
\$46 per donor.

Mr. Sanders's campaign has tried to encourage larger contributions. ``We
have two choices: We need more donations or we need people to give just
a bit more than they have before,'' Faiz Shakir, Mr. Sanders's campaign
manager, wrote in an email in the spring.

While Mr. Sanders has a sprawling list of donors nationwide, geographic
dominance does not necessarily translate into a cash advantage of the
same magnitude. Just as population density differs in urban, suburban
and rural areas, the number of people who donate to political campaigns
also varies widely based on geography.

Ranking as the top Democrat for individual donors in a densely populated
urban area is far different from leading the field in an area where few
people are donating to campaigns.

For example, Ms. Warren has more donors in a single ZIP code in Brooklyn
than any candidate has in the entire state of Mississippi. Mr. Buttigieg
has more donors in a single ZIP code in Washington, D.C., than any
candidate has in South Dakota.

Here's a look at who has the largest number of individual donors in some
major metropolitan areas.

New York City

Buttigieg

Sanders

Warren

New York City

Buttigieg

Sanders

Warren

Sanders

Boston

Buttigieg

Warren

Sanders

Boston

Buttigieg

Warren

Warren

Washington, D.C.

Harris

Buttigieg

Biden

Warren

Washington, D.C.

Harris

Buttigieg

Biden

Buttigieg

Chicago

Sanders

Buttigieg

Chicago

Sanders

Sanders

Buttigieg

Warren

Harris

Atlanta

Biden

Sanders

Buttigieg

Warren

Harris

Atlanta

Biden

San

Francisco

Warren

Buttigieg

Oakland

Sanders

Harris

San

Francisco

Warren

Buttigieg

Oakland

Sanders

Harris

Many Democratic candidates have struggled so far to develop a broad
donor base across the nation, though in some cases they at least have
bragging rights in their own backyard. Senator Amy Klobuchar of
Minnesota has the largest number of donors in most of her state, as does
Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana in his state.

Former Representative Beto O'Rourke of Texas,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/15/us/politics/beto-orourke-fundraising-2020.html}{whose
fund-raising slowed} significantly after a strong start, leads the field
in donors in most of his state.

Bernie Sanders

Senator from Vermont

\textbf{746,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$36 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Elizabeth Warren

Senator from Massachusetts

\textbf{421,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$25 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Pete Buttigieg

Mayor of South Bend, Ind.

\textbf{390,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$32 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Kamala Harris

Senator from California

\textbf{277,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$24 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Former vice president

\textbf{256,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$22 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Beto O'Rourke

Former congressman from Texas

\textbf{188,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$13 million} Total raised

Higher share of donors►

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Andrew Yang

Businessman

\textbf{133,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$5 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Julián Castro

Former housing secretary

\textbf{110,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$4 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Cory Booker

Senator from New Jersey

\textbf{100,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$10 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Tulsi Gabbard

Congresswoman from Hawaii

\textbf{88,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$4 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Amy Klobuchar

Senator from Minnesota

\textbf{79,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$9 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Jay Inslee

Governor of Washington State

\textbf{78,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$5 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Kirsten Gillibrand

Senator from New York

\textbf{77,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$5 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Marianne Williamson

Self-help author

\textbf{75,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$3 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Michael Bennet

Senator from Colorado

\textbf{28,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$3 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Steve Bullock

Governor of Montana

\textbf{17,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$2 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Seth Moulton

Congressman from Massachusetts

\textbf{14,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$1 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

John Hickenlooper

Former governor of Colorado

\textbf{14,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$3 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Tim Ryan

Congressman from Ohio

\textbf{10,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$1 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

John Delaney

Former congressman from Maryland

\textbf{8,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$2 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Bill de Blasio

Mayor of New York City

\textbf{7,000} Estimated donors

\textbf{\$1 million} Total raised

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}
\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2019/07/08/campfin/45076b3e91bf40d71b0fa5d93cf07491beba956b/statelines-2px.svg}

Methodology

Data includes individual donations reported by campaigns to the Federal
Election Commission as well as those made through
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/committee/C00401224/}{ActBlue}, an online
fund-raising platform that processes donations for Democratic
candidates. These sources combined account for 94 percent of dollars
donated to candidates by individuals. Information about donors giving
\$200 or less directly to a campaign is not available.

The number of individual donors was estimated based on the name and ZIP
code of the donor. The New York Times approximated donors' locations
from their ZIP codes, then took a weighted average of the nearest donors
for each location. Shapes are combined census tracts, each containing at
least one donor.

Estimates of donor counts are based on data through June 30. Since then,
Mr. Castro, Mr. Booker, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Gabbard reached the
130,000 donors needed to qualify for the next round of debates in
September, according to their campaigns.

Additional work by Annie Daniel and Ben Smithgall

Read 355 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
