Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/sports/basketball}{Pro Basketball}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/sports/basketball}{Pro Basketball}\textbar{}The Lakers
Hold On to Beat the Clippers in Thriller

\url{https://nyti.ms/337jxH3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-lakers-hold-on-to-beat-the-clippers-in-thriller}{%
\section{The Lakers Hold On to Beat the Clippers in
Thriller}\label{the-lakers-hold-on-to-beat-the-clippers-in-thriller}}

LeBron James defended both Paul George and Kawhi Leonard on the
Clippers' final possession. Zion Williamson played in the first game of
the night's doubleheader, but the Pelicans missed a game-winner at the
buzzer against Utah.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/sports/30nba-live-lebron2/merlin_175136385_8e2fe731-44d7-4e7a-b945-a6179d7fa2c1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sopan-deb}{Sopan Deb} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/gillian-r--brassil}{Gillian R. Brassil}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{\textbf{Want more basketball in your inbox?}}
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/marc-stein}{\emph{Sign
up for Marc Stein's weekly N.B.A. newsletter here}}\emph{.}}

If LeBron James shoots a jumper but no fans are there to see it, did he
shoot a jumper?

We kid. But on Thursday, the N.B.A. made its return at Walt Disney World
near Orlando, Fla., with several of its most visible stars, including
James, Zion Williamson, Kawhi Leonard and Anthony Davis taking part in a
doubleheader. The games were sloppy --- the rust after a four-month
layoff was real --- but they were nonetheless compelling, both of them
coming down to the final seconds.

The most striking images came before the games, when members of all four
teams kneeled during the national anthem. Several players wore ``Black
Lives Matter'' T-shirts. The N.B.A. ran commercials with coaches and
players expressing their desire to fight for social justice.

In the opener between the Utah Jazz and the New Orleans Pelicans, the
game came down to a final shot. Brandon Ingram of the Pelicans rimmed
out a last second 3-pointer, and the Jazz pulled out a 106-104 win.
Jordan Clarkson led the Jazz with 23 points off the bench.

The Los Angeles Lakers led for much of their game against their
crosstown rivals, the Clippers. But like the opener, this game came down
to the final possession. After James made a tip shot with 12 seconds
left, Paul George missed a contested 3-pointer for the Clippers as time
expired, much like at the end of the opening game. The Lakers won,
103-101.

\emph{\textbf{Here's how the Lakers beat the Clippers, and how the Jazz
came back to beat the Pelicans.}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{players-kneeled-during-the-national-anthem}{%
\subsection{Players kneeled during the national
anthem.}\label{players-kneeled-during-the-national-anthem}}

The highly anticipated N.B.A. restart tipped off with a symbol of
solidarity, rather than rivalry. Pelicans and Jazz players, coaches and
staff kneeled together in front of a Black Lives Matter floor mural
painted on the edge of the court as a wordless rendition of the national
anthem by the musician Jon Batiste played.

It was the first of many demonstrations for social justice causes
expected this season. The players across the 22 teams participating in
the restart were allowed to replace their names on the backs of their
jerseys with phrases related to social justice. On the floor today were
``peace,'' ``equality'' and ``listen to me'' among others.

And as the Compton Kidz Club sang the national anthem on a video screen
before the Los Angeles Clippers and Los Angeles Lakers tipped off later
in the evening, both teams kneeled. Several players on both teams,
including LeBron James, wore T-shirts emblazoned with the phrase ``Black
Lives Matter.''

Commissioner Adam Silver had released a statement earlier in the night
saying that the N.B.A.'s longstanding rule, which prohibits players from
kneeling, would not be enforced.

Many N.B.A. players have been active in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/12/sports/nba-season-restart-black-lives-matter.html}{various}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/01/sports/basketball/george-floyd-nba-protests.html}{social
justice} initiatives this summer.

In early June, James and a group of prominent Black athletes and
entertainers --- including Trae Young, Draymond Green, Skylar
Diggins-Smith and Jalen Rose --- announced that they would be starting a
new group aimed at protecting African-Americans' voting rights.

``Yes, we want you to go out and vote, but we're also going to give you
the tutorial,'' James said of the organization, called More Than a Vote.
``We're going to give you the background of how to vote and what they're
trying to do, the other side, to stop you from voting.

\textbf{Read more:}

\hypertarget{how-the-jazz-beat-the-pelicans}{%
\subsection{How the Jazz beat the
Pelicans}\label{how-the-jazz-beat-the-pelicans}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/sports/30nba-live-jrue/merlin_175131966_e3fd5258-56a8-4199-91c0-081fed291d24-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{1st-quarter-the-pelicans-close-strong-to-take-the-lead}{%
\subsection{1st Quarter: The Pelicans close strong to take the
lead.}\label{1st-quarter-the-pelicans-close-strong-to-take-the-lead}}

Rudy Gobert, the first N.B.A. player known to have tested positive for
the coronavirus, snagged the first points of the restart, swooping in
with a shot from near under the basket after grabbing the ball from the
tipoff.

Despite an early Jazz lead, the Pelicans took control in the last
minutes of the first quarter, going into the second quarter up 26-23.
Pelicans guard JJ Redick put in the work that pushed the Pelicans ahead,
shining with his notorious 90 percent sink rate and a clean assist to
guard Jrue Holiday to close the gap.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T05:48:45.291Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-25930521}{Thousands
  in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Zion Williamson got going with a few buckets in the quarter. He averaged
23.5 points and 6.5 rebounds per game in 19 games this season.

\hypertarget{halftime-new-orleans-is-clicking}{%
\subsection{Halftime: New Orleans is
clicking.}\label{halftime-new-orleans-is-clicking}}

By Marc Stein

Pelicans Coach Alvin Gentry vowed to use Zion Williamson in ``short
bursts'' after Williamson missed so much practice time recently tending
to an urgent family matter. But New Orleans' other stars have clicked
quickly to compensate for the limited minutes. Brandon Ingram (15
points) and Jrue Holiday (12 points) have complemented Williamson's 9
points on 4-for-4 shooting in just seven minutes. It's been sharp
offensive start for the Pelicans in building a 60-48 lead, as they seek
to build early momentum in their quest to wrest the West's No. 8 seed
away from Memphis.

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sopan-deb}{Sopan Deb}

Ah, one point of familiar comfort in an N.B.A. broadcast: the TNT
analysts Charles Barkley, Shaquille O'Neal and Kenny Smith bantering
with host Ernie Johnson at halftime. They sat socially distanced, with
dividers between one another on set at a \emph{very} long table.

``They could have the Last Supper on this table,'' Barkley joked.

Barkley said that normally, the group would be watching the game
together in the same room. Now, they had to watch by themselves in
individual rooms. They all acknowledged the awkwardness.

``I'm not used to watching games like this,'' O'Neal said. He added, ``I
really have to concentrate.''

\hypertarget{3rd-quarter-the-jazz-wont-go-away}{%
\subsection{3rd Quarter: The Jazz won't go
away.}\label{3rd-quarter-the-jazz-wont-go-away}}

Image

Jordan Clarkson, right, led the Jazz with 18 points heading into the
fourth quarter. Mike Conley also had 18 points for Utah.Credit...Ashley
Landis/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The Pelicans' lead tightened, 87-79, as the Jazz upped their offensive
game in the third with help from a few 3-pointers --- with Utah's Royce
O'Neale coming in hot toward the last three minutes of the quarter. But
Utah's success in the paint really sealed its comeback.

Jazz guard Jordan Clarkson and the Pelicans' Ingram led the board with
18 points a piece. Lonzo Ball, the Pelicans point guard, leads the game
in assists. And Gobert --- despite being benched with a little over two
minutes left on the clock after taking a foul from JJ Redick --- still
led in rebounds. New Orleans had 20 fouls by the quarter's end.

Zion Williamson tossed clear assists to both Jrue Holiday in a dunk and
Lonzo Ball for a layup early in the third, proving the 20-year-old's
chemistry is intact in his 20th career game. Redick also landed two 3s,
holding the Pelicans' lead.

By Marc Stein

A considerable concern for many teams after just three weeks of
full-speed practices was their readiness for games that count and how
ugly the product might look early. Utah was shooting 24.1 percent from
the 3-point line through three quarters (7-of-29) and had committed 15
turnovers, with Donovan Mitchell shooting just 4-of-11 from the field
for 12 points. The Jazz, though, entered the final period trailing by
just 8 points, despite their up-and-down offense.

\hypertarget{take-a-look-zion-in-action}{%
\subsection{Take a look: Zion in
action.}\label{take-a-look-zion-in-action}}

\hypertarget{4th-quarter-the-pelicans-give-up-a-big-lead-and-lose-to-the-jazz}{%
\subsection{4th Quarter: The Pelicans give up a big lead and lose to the
Jazz.}\label{4th-quarter-the-pelicans-give-up-a-big-lead-and-lose-to-the-jazz}}

Image

Zion Williamson had 9 points in the first half of New Orleans' game
against the Jazz.Credit...Ashley Landis/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The N.B.A.'s first game amid the coronavirus pandemic ended with a
gripping back and forth for a Jazz victory over the Pelicans, fitting
for the novel atmosphere the game was played in. Tied with 7 seconds
left, the win was decided by Rudy Gobert's two successful free throws,
putting Utah over New Orleans for good when Brandon Ingram missed a
last-chance 3-pointer for the Pelicans. The final score was 106-104.

Utah's Mitchell scored 8 points in the last 8 minutes of the game, which
initially lifted the Jazz over the Pelicans. He hit a layup and a
3-pointer to overtake the lead in the last 4 minutes. Still, Utah's
Jordan Clarkson and Ingram were the top scorers with 23 points each.

\textbf{5 Stats of the Game}

1. Both teams, as expected, were sloppy in their first game since March.
The Jazz and Pelicans each had 20 turnovers, well above their season
averages.

2. Zion Williamson: once again impressive: 6-of-8 from the field for 13
points in 15 minutes.

3. Lonzo Ball: 2-of-13 from the field. Missed all four of his 3-point
attempts.

4. The Jazz shot 8-of-34 (23.5 percent) from 3-point land and still
managed to win.

5. Jordan Clarkson was the top scorer for the Jazz, and he didn't even
start. He scored 23 points off the bench.

\hypertarget{how-the-lakers-beat-the-clippers}{%
\subsection{How the Lakers beat the
Clippers}\label{how-the-lakers-beat-the-clippers}}

Image

Anthony Davis of the Lakers led all scorers with 34 points in a win
against the Clippers on Thursday.Credit...Mike Ehrmann/USA Today Sports,
via Reuters

\hypertarget{1st-quarter-anthony-davis-makes-his-mark}{%
\subsection{1st Quarter: Anthony Davis makes his
mark.}\label{1st-quarter-anthony-davis-makes-his-mark}}

The two titans of the West tipped off with Lakers center JaVale McGee
landing a clean shot with help from league-assist-leader LeBron James,
who had two assists within the first couple of minutes and five by the
end of the first quarter. The Lakers ended the first quarter ahead,
35-23.

Paul George, a six-time All-Star, scored the Clippers' first points and
led the team with 8 points out the gate.

Both teams were missing players. The Clippers were without Lou Williams
and Montrezl Harrell, both of whom left the campus. Williams has since
returned and is still in quarantine, while Harrell's status is unknown.
The Lakers do not have Rajon Rondo, who broke his thumb while in the
bubble, or Avery Bradley, who opted to skip the Disney World restart.

Lakers forward Anthony Davis --- who almost didn't play because of an
eye injury --- had 14 points in the first quarter. Davis got into a
tit-for-tat dunk battle with Clippers forward Joakim Noah, who smacked
what should've been a clear shot for Davis out of his hands only to have
Davis come back and dunk on him minutes later. Both forwards secured
three rebounds in the first quarter.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Noah was making his debut for the Clippers. Noah, a former defensive
player of the year, has battled injuries for the last five years, but he
put together a productive run with the Memphis Grizzlies last year. In
his prime, Noah was an energetic, frenzied presence on the defensive end
--- and a frequent LeBron James antagonizer --- and helped the Chicago
Bulls get to the Eastern Conference finals.

The Lakers' success near the board put them over in the end. They went
2-for-8 on 3-point shots; the Clippers missed all seven of their 3-point
attempts.

\emph{\textbf{One more thing \ldots{}}}

The end-of-quarter interviews with coaches look much different. The
broadcasts have been taking advantage of wide shots to show that the TNT
sideline reporters are socially distant from the coaches, creating a bit
of a jarring visual.

\hypertarget{lets-check-in-on-lebron-james-hes-great}{%
\subsection{Let's check in on LeBron James. (He's
great.)}\label{lets-check-in-on-lebron-james-hes-great}}

Image

If there had been any fans at the game, they would have loved this dunk
from LeBron James of the Lakers.Credit...Pool photo by Mike Ehrmann

And another look:

\hypertarget{dion-waiters-may-be-who-the-lakers-needed}{%
\subsection{Dion Waiters may be who the Lakers
needed.}\label{dion-waiters-may-be-who-the-lakers-needed}}

Another new face on the floor tonight: Dion Waiters for the Lakers.
Waiters, who entered the league as a rookie in 2012, can be a bit of an
adventure. He's always been a trigger-happy scorer. He likes to shoot,
even though he's not a particularly good shooter. But he's known for
scoring in bunches. When he gets hot, he's dangerous. His best year was
in 2014, when he averaged a career-high 15.9 points a game.

Waiters's last stop in the league was with the Miami Heat. This season,
he was suspended three times by the team for failing to adhere to team
policies. He was eventually traded to the Grizzlies and waived, before
signing as a free agent with the Lakers.

But the Lakers need depth, especially without Rajon Rondo and Avery
Bradley. Waiters, at his best, can help take the scoring load off LeBron
James and Anthony Davis.

\hypertarget{halftime-the-clippers-close-the-gap}{%
\subsection{Halftime: The Clippers close the
gap.}\label{halftime-the-clippers-close-the-gap}}

Image

Paul George of the Clippers picked up three fouls in the first half
against the Lakers.Credit...Mike Ehrmann/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

The Lakers ended the first half just 2 points ahead, 54-52.

After a rough first quarter, Clippers guard Kawhi Leonard came back with
a fury, landing a strong 3-pointer in the first few minutes, rocketing
himself to an impressive 19 points in 16 minutes. Leonard, who helped
lead the Toronto Raptors to their first championship last season, ranks
eighth in the league for points per game.

The Lakers' Anthony Davis had 20 points in 16 minutes. Forward Kyle
Kuzma also locked in a couple of threes. But LeBron James only scored 6
points on 2-of-9 shooting (22 percent), with 6 rebounds.

Strong defense prevented success on both sides: The Clippers ended with
a 56 percent sink rate. The Lakers, 51 percent.

\hypertarget{hoping-to-hear-trash-talk-youre-out-of-luck}{%
\subsection{Hoping to hear trash talk? You're out of
luck.}\label{hoping-to-hear-trash-talk-youre-out-of-luck}}

There was some, uh, hope from N.B.A. fans that the lack of people in the
seats at the Disney World arenas would allow those of us on our couches
to hear trash talk and cursing on the floor. Truthfully, in part because
of some fake crowd noise, music being piped in during gameplay and
copious bleeping from the TNT censors, there hasn't been much of that.
But a fan can hope!

\hypertarget{3rd-quarter-anthony-davis-is-on-fire}{%
\subsection{3rd Quarter: Anthony Davis is on
fire.}\label{3rd-quarter-anthony-davis-is-on-fire}}

Not the expected comeback game for what was described as a potential
preview of the Western Conference finals, with a third quarter bogged
down by turnovers and fouls. The Clippers stole the lead by 1 point
after a slow first half, starting the final quarter 77-76.

Anthony Davis, consistently leading in game points, goes into the fourth
with 32 points.

LeBron James hasn't had an assist since the first quarter, simply
tallying 7 rebounds, just ahead of Clippers guard Reggie Jackson, who
has 6.

\hypertarget{the-lakers-have-rallied-but-can-they-hold-on}{%
\subsection{The Lakers have rallied, but can they hold
on?}\label{the-lakers-have-rallied-but-can-they-hold-on}}

LeBron James is just 4-of-16 for 12 points with 5 minutes to go in the
fourth quarter. Anthony Davis (32) and Kyle Kuzma (16) have been
critical for the Lakers in the second half.

\hypertarget{4th-quarter-the-lakers-edge-the-clippers-103-101}{%
\subsection{4th Quarter: The Lakers edge the Clippers,
103-101.}\label{4th-quarter-the-lakers-edge-the-clippers-103-101}}

With a minute left, the Clippers' Paul George tied up the game --- only
to have LeBron James first miss a shot, then snag a rebound to secure
the 103-101 win for the Lakers.

But the conversation has been more about social justice than the
down-to-the-wire games.

``The game of basketball has always been bigger than the ball and the
rim,'' James told TNT after the game.

James earned himself a double-double with 16 points and 11 rebounds,
also leading the game in assists at 7.

George got hot from the field in the fourth to lead the Clippers with 30
points. Kawhi Leonard had 28. Clippers guard Pat Beverley locked in 8
points in the last quarter, but the Clippers were still unable to
overcome the Lakers' Anthony Davis, who stole the game, pouring in 34
points, 8 rebounds and 4 assists.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
