Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/upshot}{The Upshot}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/upshot}{The Upshot}\textbar{}Monitoring the Coronavirus
Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the U.S.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VuYJVw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa1dcd0-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa203e0-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa203e1-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa203e2-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa203e3-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=5fa203e4-f4b6-11ea-977b-75df3e68102f\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Monitoring the Coronavirus Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the
U.S.}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

Upshot

\hypertarget{monitoring-the-coronavirus-outbreak-in-metro-areas-across-the-us}{%
\section{Monitoring the Coronavirus Outbreak in Metro Areas Across the
U.S.}\label{monitoring-the-coronavirus-outbreak-in-metro-areas-across-the-us}}

By The New York TimesUpdated September 12, 2020, 12:33 A.M. E.T.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{238}
\end{itemize}

For the nation as a whole, cases and deaths appear to have peaked or are
starting to flatten. But there is a lot of regional variation.

\protect\hyperlink{big-picture}{The big
picture}\protect\hyperlink{hotspots}{Current hot
spots}\protect\hyperlink{good-news}{Potential
outbreaks}\protect\hyperlink{cumulative}{Cumulative}

To help provide a detailed picture of the past, present and future of
the coronavirus pandemic in the United States, here are four ways of
thinking about it in hundreds of metro areas across the country, using
data
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-county-data-us.html}{compiled
by The New York Times}. This page will be updated regularly.

\hypertarget{1-the-big-picture-new-cases-and-deaths}{%
\subsection{1. The Big Picture: New Cases and
Deaths}\label{1-the-big-picture-new-cases-and-deaths}}

The simplest way to track the progress of an outbreak is by seeing how
many new cases and deaths are reported in a given area each day.

\hypertarget{new-cases-per-day}{%
\paragraph{New cases per day}\label{new-cases-per-day}}

United States

0

20,000

40,000

60,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

New cases

7-day average

\hypertarget{new-deaths-per-day}{%
\paragraph{New deaths per day}\label{new-deaths-per-day}}

United States

0

1,000

2,000 deaths

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Many deaths from unspecified days

New deaths

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

x

\hypertarget{new-cases-per-day-1}{%
\paragraph{New cases per day}\label{new-cases-per-day-1}}

New York City area

0

5,000

10,000

15,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Probable data released

New cases

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

\hypertarget{new-deaths-per-day-1}{%
\paragraph{New deaths per day}\label{new-deaths-per-day-1}}

New York City area

0

500

1,000 deaths

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

New deaths

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

Metro and micropolitan areas are bigger than just the city limits of a
given place --- they often include the surrounding suburbs and exurbs.

\hypertarget{2-where-the-outbreak-is-worst-now}{%
\subsection{2. Where the Outbreak Is Worst
Now}\label{2-where-the-outbreak-is-worst-now}}

The metro areas with the greatest number of new cases, relative to their
population, in the last two weeks:

\hypertarget{new-cases-last-two-weeks}{%
\paragraph{New cases, last two weeks}\label{new-cases-last-two-weeks}}

Metro or micro area

Population

Recent cases

Per 1,000

1

Huntsville, Texas

87,622

868

6.1

2

Pullman, Wash.

50,104

611

5.4

3

Athens, Ga.

213,750

1,778

4.8

4

Harrisonburg, Va.

134,964

1,068

4.5

5

Tallahassee, Fla.

387,227

2,898

4.3

6

Rio Grande City, Texas

64,633

439

4.3

7

Oxford, Miss.

54,019

561

4.3

8

Palestine, Texas

57,735

294

3.8

9

Stillwater, Okla.

81,784

639

3.5

10

Statesboro, Ga.

79,608

837

3.5

11

Columbia, Mo.

180,463

1,464

3.4

12

Pine Bluff, Ark.

87,804

634

3.3

13

Bismarck, N.D.

133,179

801

3.3

14

Farmington, Mo.

67,215

464

3.2

15

Bloomington, Ind.

169,230

826

3.2

16

Blacksburg, Va.

183,280

1,227

3.1

17

Warrensburg, Mo.

54,062

195

2.9

18

Enid, Okla.

61,056

361

2.8

19

Ames, Iowa

97,117

865

2.8

20

Lubbock, Texas

322,257

2,272

2.8

503

New York City area

20.0 mil.

10,426

0.3

1

2

3

4

5

6

Limited to areas with at least 50,000 people. Recent cases are those
announced in the last two weeks, but in some cases may have taken place
earlier because of delays in reporting.

Here, we've limited the window of cases to those within the last two
weeks. Scaling those cases by the population of the area can help give a
sense of the prevalence of the illness there and how strained a
community's health care system may be. Of course, case counts are
subject to variable rates of testing --- cases could fall in places
simply because fewer tests are being done --- so moderate changes in
rankings on these tables may not always be meaningful.

\hypertarget{3-where-there-may-be-bad-news-ahead}{%
\subsection{3. Where There May Be Bad News
Ahead}\label{3-where-there-may-be-bad-news-ahead}}

Here, the metro areas where new cases are rising the fastest, on a
population-adjusted basis:

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-increasing-fastest}{%
\paragraph{Where new cases are increasing
fastest}\label{where-new-cases-are-increasing-fastest}}

Metro or micro area

A week ago

Now

Change per 100k

1

Palestine, Texas

60

222

281

2

Huntsville, Texas

312

536

256

3

Warrensburg, Mo.

40

155

213

4

Rio Grande City, Texas

161

278

181

5

Madison, Wis.

411

1,601

179

6

Platteville, Wis.

15

105

175

7

State College, Pa.

173

447

169

8

Muskegon, Mich.

128

411

163

9

Whitewater, Wis.

76

242

160

10

Eagle Pass, Texas

77

164

148

11

Bloomington, Ind.

292

534

143

12

Gadsden, Ala.

147

283

133

13

Athens, Ga.

758

1,020

123

14

Tallahassee, Fla.

1,226

1,672

115

15

Gainesville, Fla.

315

632

110

16

Harrisonburg, Va.

460

608

110

17

Lufkin, Texas

31

117

99.2

18

Athens, Ohio

27

83

85.7

19

Lansing, Mich.

216

625

84.8

20

Green Bay, Wis.

404

677

84.5

218

New York City area

5,357

5,069

-1.4

-200

-100

0

100

200

Limited to areas with at least 50,000 people. Figures are sorted by the
difference between the number of cases in the past week compared with
the week prior.

\hypertarget{4-the-places-hit-hardest}{%
\subsection{4. The Places Hit Hardest}\label{4-the-places-hit-hardest}}

Below, the metro areas that have had the highest cumulative case rates
since the start of the outbreak:

\hypertarget{cumulative-confirmed-cases}{%
\paragraph{Cumulative confirmed
cases}\label{cumulative-confirmed-cases}}

Metro or micro area

Population

cases

Per 1,000

1

El Centro, Calif.

181,215

11,218

61.9

2

Gallup, N.M.

71,367

4,259

59.7

3

Eagle Pass, Texas

58,722

3,499

59.6

4

Yuma, Ariz.

213,787

12,374

57.9

5

Rio Grande City, Texas

64,633

3,529

54.6

6

Brownsville-Harlingen, Texas

423,163

21,983

51.9

7

Show Low, Ariz.

110,924

5,677

51.2

8

Pine Bluff, Ark.

87,804

4,357

49.6

9

Lake City, Fla.

71,686

3,485

48.6

10

Palestine, Texas

57,735

2,760

47.8

11

Yakima, Wash.

250,873

11,920

47.5

12

Corpus Christi, Texas

452,534

21,228

46.9

13

Marion, Ohio

65,093

3,031

46.6

14

Sioux City, Iowa

169,878

7,826

46.1

15

Hanford-Corcoran, Calif.

152,940

7,039

46.0

16

Miami

6.2 mil.

281,180

45.6

17

Laredo, Texas

276,652

12,532

45.3

18

Milledgeville, Ga.

53,347

2,250

42.2

19

Huntsville, Texas

87,622

3,603

41.1

20

Victoria, Texas

99,742

4,074

40.8

82

New York City area

20.0 mil.

561,375

28.1

1

2

5

10

20

50

Limited to areas with at least 50,000 people.

As the pandemic progresses, the number of cases per capita can provide a
good measure of the prevalence of coronavirus in a community, even if
the deadliest period of the outbreak has passed, as it may have in
places like Seattle, New York and New Orleans.

There are other measurements that would be helpful in understanding the
progress of the epidemic in different places, such as the number of new
hospitalizations, the number of tests administered or the number of
people showing any symptoms of respiratory illness. But confirmed
coronavirus cases, however incomplete, are the most useful daily
statistics currently available at a local level everywhere in the
country.

\hypertarget{about-the-data}{%
\subsection{About the data}\label{about-the-data}}

The Times has identified the following reporting anomalies or
methodology changes in the data:

April 6: The Times began using deaths reported by the New York State
Health Department instead of the city's health department.

April 19: New York State released backlogged confirmed deaths from April
17 and April 18.

June 25: New Jersey began reporting probable deaths.

June 30: New York City released deaths from earlier periods but did not
specify when they were from.

Aug. 6: Our database changed to record deaths by New York City residents
instead of deaths that took place in New York City.

Aug. 20: New York City removed four previously reported deaths after
reviewing records.

In data for the United States, The Times is now including cases and
deaths that have been identified by public health officials as probable
coronavirus patients. Some states and counties only report figures in
which a coronavirus infection was confirmed through testing. Because
confirmed cases are widely considered to be an undercount of the true
toll, some state and local governments have started identifying probable
cases and deaths using criteria that were developed by states and the
federal government.

\textbf{Confirmed cases and deaths} are counts of individuals whose
coronavirus infections were confirmed by a laboratory test.
\textbf{Probable cases and deaths} count individuals who did not have a
confirmed test but were evaluated using criteria developed by national
and local governments. Some governments are reporting only confirmed
cases, while others are reporting both confirmed and probable numbers.
And there is also another set of governments that are reporting the two
types of numbers combined without providing a way to separate the
confirmed from the probable. The Times is now using the total of
confirmed and probable counts when they are available individually or
combined. Otherwise only the confirmed count will be shown.

Governments often revise data or report a large increase in cases on a
single day without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular
pattern in the daily reported figures. The Times is excluding these
anomalies from seven-day averages when possible.

Read more about the methodology and download county-level data for
coronavirus cases in the United States from The New York Times
\href{https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data}{on GitHub}.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Tracking the Coronavirus}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus}}

\hypertarget{united-states}{%
\subsubsection{United States}\label{united-states}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{latest-maps-and-data}{%
\paragraph{Latest Maps and Data}\label{latest-maps-and-data}}

Cases and deaths for every county

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/deaths-us.jpg}

\hypertarget{deaths-above-normal}{%
\paragraph{Deaths Above Normal}\label{deaths-above-normal}}

The true toll of coronavirus in the U.S.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/metros.png}

\hypertarget{cities-and-metro-areas}{%
\paragraph{Cities and Metro Areas}\label{cities-and-metro-areas}}

Where it is getting better and worse

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/testing.png}

\hypertarget{testing}{%
\paragraph{Testing}\label{testing}}

Is your state doing enough?

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/nursing-homes.png}

\hypertarget{nursing-homes}{%
\paragraph{Nursing Homes}\label{nursing-homes}}

The hardest-hit states and facilities

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599836255642/covid-college-cases-tracker-promo-1599836255642-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{colleges-and-universities}{%
\paragraph{Colleges and Universities}\label{colleges-and-universities}}

Cases at more than 1,000 schools

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/24/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus-promo-1587778728210/states-reopen-map-coronavirus-promo-1587778728210-threeByTwoSmallAt2X-v96.png}

\hypertarget{reopening}{%
\paragraph{Reopening}\label{reopening}}

What is open and closed in each state

\hypertarget{world}{%
\subsubsection{World}\label{world}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{latest-maps-and-data-1}{%
\paragraph{Latest Maps and Data}\label{latest-maps-and-data-1}}

Cases and deaths for every country

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/deaths-world.jpg}

\hypertarget{deaths-above-normal-1}{%
\paragraph{Deaths Above Normal}\label{deaths-above-normal-1}}

The true toll of coronavirus around the world

\hypertarget{health}{%
\subsubsection{Health}\label{health}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/vaccines.png}

\hypertarget{vaccines}{%
\paragraph{Vaccines}\label{vaccines}}

Track their development

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-drugs-treatments.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/491875afa3298f8daa04797f059de38d8307c8cc/images/footer-thumbs/treatments.png}

\hypertarget{treatments}{%
\paragraph{Treatments}\label{treatments}}

Rated by effectiveness and safety

\hypertarget{countries}{%
\subsubsection{Countries}\label{countries}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
  States}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{states-territories-and-cities}{%
\subsubsection{States, Territories and
Cities}\label{states-territories-and-cities}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Hampshire}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Jersey}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York City}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
  Rico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
  Island}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
  D.C.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
  Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}
\end{itemize}

Source: New York Times database of reports from state and local health
agencies and hospitals

Read 238 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
