Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Ocasio-Cortez Pushes Cuomo
to Back Billionaires' Tax

\url{https://nyti.ms/3h4acTZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ocasio-cortez-pushes-cuomo-to-back-billionaires-tax}{%
\section{Ocasio-Cortez Pushes Cuomo to Back Billionaires'
Tax}\label{ocasio-cortez-pushes-cuomo-to-back-billionaires-tax}}

Progressives want the tax to help New Yorkers hurt by the virus, but the
governor says it could drive high earners out of state and damage the
tax base.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/nyregion/16aoc-billionairetax/merlin_173855973_ae218094-4cea-4fb6-98b9-425891c6c6a1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffery-c-mays}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-jeffery-c-mays/author-jeffery-c-mays-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jesse-mckinley}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jesse-mckinley/author-jesse-mckinley-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeffery-c-mays}{Jeffery C. Mays} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jesse-mckinley}{Jesse McKinley}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 16, 2020Updated July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/alexandria-ocasio-cortez-sexism-congress.html}{Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez} has joined a new campaign to push Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to
tax billionaires who live in New York State and use the money to assist
people hurt by the pandemic-fueled economic crisis.

Similar measures targeting the wealthy have stalled in Albany, opposed
by Republicans who long controlled the State Senate or by Mr. Cuomo, a
third-term Democrat who has made
\href{https://news.bloombergtax.com/daily-tax-report-state/cuomo-proposes-n-y-tax-cuts-for-small-businesses-farmers}{his
tax-cutting way}s a central platform of his decade-long tenure.

But the environment has changed: Democrats gained control of both houses
of the Legislature in a ``blue wave'' election in 2018, and the effects
of the coronavirus-forced shutdown have created a \$13 billion state
budget shortfall.

Jessica Ramos, a state senator from Queens who was among the progressive
Democrats who won office in 2018, sponsored
\href{https://legislation.nysenate.gov/pdf/bills/2019/S8277}{the bill
that would tax} the unrealized capital gains of the state's 119
billionaires. The money raised would be redirected to workers not
eligible for unemployment insurance or the federal stimulus.

The proposed legislation is one of at least three tax-the-rich bills,
including one that would impose an ultra-millionaires' tax, that will
greet the State Legislature when it returns for a rare July session on
Monday.

But even with Democrats in control in Albany, the measures are still
sure to encounter opposition from Republicans and many business leaders.

Mr. Cuomo has argued that taxes that target high earners could drive
them out of the state and further damage the tax base --- a concern that
the governor's budget director, Robert Mujica, underscored in an
interview on Wednesday.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T10:03:05.885Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6b644638}{`Long
  days, long nights': Washington prepares for a prolonged fight over
  virus relief.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7af9fca0}{Israel's
  rocky reopening of its schools may be a lesson for the U.S.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-33bf9168}{Hurricane
  Isaias arrives in North Carolina as officials along the East Coast
  scramble.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

New York already has one of the highest tax rates for the wealthy in the
country, Mr. Mujica said, adding that the top 2 percent of taxpayers
already pay half of the state's tax liability. The only effective way to
get billionaires to pay more, he said, would be if Congress enacted a
wealth tax on high earners.

``It's interesting when you have people elected to Congress pushing for
state action when they can't get action in Congress,'' Mr. Mujica said.
``It's absolutely necessary for the federal government to step up and
provide the support we need.''

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez is part of a coordinated effort that aims to persuade
Mr. Cuomo that the state should act first.

On Thursday, a campaign-like video was released that featured Ms.
Ocasio-Cortez; Ms. Ramos; the New York City public advocate, Jumaane
Williams; and two Assembly members, Carmen De La Rosa and Yuh-Line Niou.

``Governor Cuomo, we need you to pass a billionaires' tax, in order to
make sure that we're providing for our working families,'' Ms.
Ocasio-Cortez said
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cIA1ex88faM\&feature=youtu.be}{in
the video}. ``It's time to stop protecting billionaires, and it's time
to start working for working families.''

Also on Thursday, 100 immigrant workers started a 24-hour fast and
sleep-out near the Fifth Avenue penthouse of Jeff Bezos, the founder of
Amazon and one of the richest men in the world. On Friday, hundreds of
people are expected to hold a ``march on billionaires'' that will end at
Mr. Cuomo's Manhattan office.

``We are calling for a just recovery for all New Yorkers, but right now
our system is rigged to protect the mega-rich,'' said Angeles Solis,
lead organizer for Make the Road New York, one of the groups in the
coalition.

Last year, a so-called pied-à-terre tax on the second homes of the
wealthy in New York City gained some momentum after Kenneth C. Griffin,
a hedge fund billionaire with an estimated net worth of \$10 billion,
purchased the most expensive single family home in the United States, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/24/nyregion/238-million-penthouse-sale.html}{\$238
million apartment} on Central Park South.

Mr. Cuomo voiced support for the plan before it fell apart after the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/29/nyregion/pied-a-terre-tax.html}{real
estate industry exerted pressure} on legislators.

But the financial crisis created by the coronavirus --- the state
estimates it needs more than \$10 billion to stave off major cuts in
education, health care and public safety --- has forced lawmakers to
reconsider implementing new taxes.

Last month, 103 Democratic legislators --- including a majority in the
State Senate --- signed on
to\href{http://fiscalpolicy.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Statement-of-Principles-6.pdf}{a
letter} that called for the wealthy to pay their share, and pledged not
to allow budget cuts ``without raising revenue from those who can most
afford to pay more.''

Ms. Ramos, who represents areas of Queens hit hardest by the
coronavirus, said the environment has changed since the failure of the
pied-à-terre tax.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``The pandemic has only exacerbated the holes that already existed in
our safety net,'' she said. ``It is much easier to make the case for
taxing billionaires now that there is such widespread strife, and
unemployment has never been higher.''

Ms. Ocasio-Cortez said that Ms. Ramos's bill would give ``much deserved
economic relief'' to the many people suffering from the effects of the
outbreak, especially undocumented immigrants ``who have been at the
forefront of the crisis as essential workers.''

This is not the first time that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat who
represents parts of Queens and the Bronx, has challenged the governor;
she has criticized Mr. Cuomo over his plan to add more police officers
to the subway.

Mr. Cuomo, in turn, has sought to
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fnypost.com\%2F2019\%2F11\%2F26\%2Fcuomo-aoc-had-nothing-to-do-with-chasing-out-amazon\%2F}{diminish}
Ms. Ocasio Cortez's role in scuttling the plans of Amazon to locate one
of its headquarters in Queens. More recently, the governor said Ms.
Ocasio-Cortez was mistaken in speculating that crime had risen because
people were unable to pay their rent and were fearful of eviction; he
pointed out that there was a state moratorium on evictions.

With Republicans no longer in charge of the State Senate, the proposals
for new taxes on the wealthy will undoubtedly have a far greater chance
of passing. But Robert G. Ortt, the Senate Republican minority leader,
still asserted that a billionaires' tax would be a mistake that would
``send individuals who already pay for most of New York's services away
to lower tax states along with their businesses and jobs.''

``We need to examine spending and start cutting waste before everyone
escapes from New York,'' he added.

Yet in the end, Mr. Cuomo may be the biggest barrier to new taxes on the
wealthy; the governor has insisted that the federal government must
``step up'' to help New York.

In late May, shortly after ringing the bell
\href{https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/video-photos-amid-ongoing-covid-19-pandemic-governor-cuomo-rings-opening-bell-new-york-stock}{to
reopen the New York Stock Exchange}, the governor demurred when asked
whether he'd support taxing the rich, saying he was ``still banking on
Washington doing the intelligent thing.''

``I still don't want to create the possibility or the excuse for
Washington to say, `Well, we don't have to act,'''
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9MFvDGjI64}{he said}.

A recent analysis by Americans for Tax Fairness found that the wealth of
New York's 119 billionaires
\href{https://americansfortaxfairness.org/state-reports-billionaires-wealth-growth-coronavirus-pandemic-march-june-2020/}{increased
by \$77 billion from March to June}, a period that saw the state gain a
new billionaire. The total net worth of New York's billionaires grew to
\$600.7 billion from \$521.5 billion from March to June, according to an
analysis of data from Forbes.

``You are barely slowing down their growth in wealth,'' said Frank
Clemente, the executive director of Americans for Tax Fairness. ``The
pandemic has been fabulous for helping people understand how vulnerable
so many millions of Americans are, and just how upside down the economic
system is.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
