\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/}{Wirecutter}

\protect\hyperlink{main}{Skip To Content}

 Search Wirecutter For:

 Search

Reviews for the real world

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/electronics/}{Electronics}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/}{All Electronics}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/accessories/}{Accessories}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/audio/}{Audio}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/batteries/}{Batteries and Charging}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/cameras/}{Cameras}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/camera-accessories/}{Camera
    Accessories}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/computers/}{Computers}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/}{Exercise}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/gaming/}{Gaming}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/headphones/}{Headphones}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/home-theater/}{Home Theater}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/laptops/}{Laptops}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/networking/}{Networking}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/}{Printers \& Scanners}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/projectors/}{Projectors}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/}{Smart Home Devices}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/smartphones/}{Smartphones}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/storage-devices/}{Storage}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/tablets/}{Tablets}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/tvs/}{TVs}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/electronics/usb-c/}{USB-C}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/}{Home \& Garden}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/}{All Home \& Garden}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/bathroom/}{Bathroom}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/bedroom/}{Bedroom}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/cleaning/}{Cleaning}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/closet-laundry/}{Closet \& Laundry}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/garage/}{Garage}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/entertaining-home/}{Entertaining}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/furniture/}{Furniture}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/gardening/}{Gardening}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/safety-home-garden/}{Safety}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/}{Smart Home Devices}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/storage-home-garden/}{Storage}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/tools/}{Tools}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/}{Weather}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/}{Kitchen \& Dining}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/}{All Kitchen \& Dining}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/baking/}{Baking}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/coffee/}{Coffee}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/cookware/}{Cookware}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/entertaining/}{Dining \&
    Entertaining}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/large-appliances/}{Large
    Appliances}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/small-appliances/}{Small
    Appliances}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/storage/}{Storage}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/tools-kitchen-dining/}{Tools}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/wine-bar/}{Wine \& Bar}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/money/}{Money}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/money/}{All Money}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/money/shopping/}{Shopping}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/money/managing-money/}{Managing Your Money}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  More categories...

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/travel/}{Travel}

    \begin{itemize}
    \tightlist
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/travel/}{All Travel}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/travel/backpacks/}{Backpacks}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/travel/bags/}{Bags}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/travel/gear-travel/}{Gear}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/travel/luggage/}{Luggage}
    \end{itemize}
  \item
    \href{/wirecutter/gifts/}{Gifts}

    \begin{itemize}
    \tightlist
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/}{All Gifts}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/guide/}{Gift Guide}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/kids/}{Gifts for Babies \& Kids}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/adults/}{Gifts for Grown-Ups}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/mothers-day/}{Mother's Day Gifts}
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/gifts/graduation/}{Graduation Gifts}
    \end{itemize}
  \item
    More categories...

    \begin{itemize}
    \tightlist
    \item
      \href{/wirecutter/appliances/}{Appliances}

      \begin{itemize}
      \tightlist
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/appliances/}{All Appliances}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/appliances/large/}{Large Appliances}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/appliances/small/}{Small Appliances}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/appliances/vacuums/}{Vacuum Cleaners}
      \end{itemize}
    \item
      More categories...

      \begin{itemize}
      \tightlist
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/}{Health \& Fitness}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/}{All Health \& Fitness}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/cycling/}{Cycling}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/}{Exercise}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/medical-supplies/}{Medical
          Supplies}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/personal-care/}{Personal
          Care}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/wearables/}{Wearables}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/}{Baby \& Kid}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/}{All Baby \& Kid}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/baby/}{Baby}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/pregnancy-nursing/}{Pregnancy \&
          Nursing}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/school/}{School}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/toys/}{Toys}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/}{Outdoors}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/}{All Outdoors}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/apparel/}{Apparel}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/camping/}{Camping}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/gear/}{Gear}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/hiking/}{Hiking}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/snow/}{Snow}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/swim/}{Swim}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/}{Weather}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/pets/}{Pets}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/pets/}{All Pets}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/pets/cats/}{Cats}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/pets/dogs/}{Dogs}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/pets/gear-pets/}{Gear}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/}{Hobby \& Crafts}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/}{All Hobby \& Crafts}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/music/}{Music}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/software/}{Software \& Apps}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/office/}{Office}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/office/}{All Office}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/office/furniture-office/}{Furniture}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/office/home-office/}{Home Office}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/}{Printers \&
          Scanners}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/cars/}{Cars}

        \begin{itemize}
        \tightlist
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/cars/}{All Cars}
        \item
          \href{/wirecutter/cars/accessories-auto/}{Accessories}
        \end{itemize}
      \item
        \href{/wirecutter/adult/}{Adult}
      \end{itemize}
    \end{itemize}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/deals/}{Deals}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/blog/}{Blog}
\end{itemize}

Reviews for the real world.

Wirecutter is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site,
we may earn an affiliate commission. \href{/wirecutter/about/}{Learn
more}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-lowres-2x1-6075-320x160.jpg}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/}{Baby \& Kid}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/baby/}{Baby}
\end{enumerate}

\hypertarget{our-favorite-diaper-creams-nail-and-hair-tools-and-other-baby-care-essentials}{%
\section{Our Favorite Diaper Creams, Nail and Hair Tools, and Other Baby
Care
Essentials}\label{our-favorite-diaper-creams-nail-and-hair-tools-and-other-baby-care-essentials}}

Published June 8, 2020

Your guide

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/20200513_wirecutter_super_t_symbol_96px.png}

  Wirecutter Staff
\end{itemize}

Share this review

Keeping a squirmy infant clean is a task worthy of Sisyphus---the minute
you get them washed, brushed, and diapered, it's time to start all over.
But the right tools can make grooming your kid a little less of a
battle. From the best diapering supplies and tiny scissors that keep
sharp nails at bay to a snot sucker that really works and supplies for a
calming bath time, here's what our staffers use in their own homes with
their own kids.

\hypertarget{pastes-for-preventing-diaper-rash}{%
\subsection{Pastes for preventing diaper
rash}\label{pastes-for-preventing-diaper-rash}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-triplepaste-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Triple Paste

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39067/162822/4/115954/?merchant=Amazon}{Triple
Paste Medicated Ointment}, \$30 for a 16-ounce jar at the time of
publication}\\
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39068/162823/4/115955/?merchant=Amazon}{Aquaphor
Baby Healing Ointment}, about \$10 for a 7-ounce tube at the time of
publication}\\
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39173/162990/4/116133/?merchant=Amazon}{Boudreaux's
Butt Paste}, about \$7 for a 4-ounce tube at the time of publication}

Keeping your infant's skin dry is key to preventing diaper rash. Zinc
oxide and petroleum jelly, the main ingredients in these three picks,
are both great at sealing out moisture. It's important that a diaper
cream be concentrated enough to last a long time on the skin, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39067/162822/4/115954/?merchant=Amazon}{Triple
Paste Medicated Ointment} is a thick, smooth paste with 12.8\% zinc
oxide. It's easy to apply and gives great protection---slather it on and
you can see water bead up on its surface. It also lasts all night---it's
one of the only creams we've tried that's still visible on the skin in
the morning.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39173/162990/4/116133/?merchant=Amazon}{Boudreaux's
Butt Paste}, made with 16\% zinc oxide, is similarly reliable and
moisture resistant.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39068/162823/4/115955/?merchant=Amazon}{Aquaphor
Baby Healing Ointment} is another great choice. It's almost as
water-resistant as Triple Paste and Boudreaux's Butt Paste, and it's
easier to spread because it's made with 41\% petroleum jelly. It also
contains lanolin and bisabolol, which are
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27172304}{potential
allergens}. But those ingredients serve to make this ointment thicker
and longer-lasting than pure petroleum jelly (Vaseline), and that is a
plus when your aim is protecting skin for long periods of time. Unlike
zinc, which leaves a white cast, the Aquaphor ointment is almost
invisible, and it works well on any skin that needs soothing---not just
bums.

\emph{---Wirecutter staff}

\hypertarget{a-tiny-hairbrush-for-post-bath-tangles}{%
\subsection{A tiny hairbrush for post-bath
tangles}\label{a-tiny-hairbrush-for-post-bath-tangles}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-wetbrush-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Jennifer Hunter

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39070/162825/4/115957/?merchant=Amazon}{Wet
Brush Mini}, about \$7 at the time of publication}

Despite the fine, soft texture of my daughter's hair, the first baby
brush I bought for her barely smoothed the surface and did nothing to
detangle the layers underneath. Instead, I found myself reaching for my
adult-size Wet Brush to comb through her post-bath hair. Finally, I got
smart and bought my 1-year-old her own
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39070/162825/4/115957/?merchant=Amazon}{mini
``Squirt'' size}, which is much easier to maneuver around her little
head. Its tines are firm but flexible; they make quick work of tangles,
but somehow never tug or pull at delicate hair. The handle is also just
the right size for small hands. My daughter hasn't mastered brushing
yet, but she enjoys waving this brush in the general vicinity of her
head. This one comes in lots of fun colors, too, which helps us find it
when it's accidentally buried in the toy bin.

\emph{---Jennifer Hunter, supervising editor}

\hypertarget{nail-scissors-that-wont-draw-blood}{%
\subsection{Nail scissors that won't draw
blood}\label{nail-scissors-that-wont-draw-blood}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-piyopiyo-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Piyo Piyo

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39077/162832/4/115958/?merchant=Amazon}{Piyo
Piyo Baby Nail Scissors}, \$8 at the time of publication}

How hard could trimming a baby's nails be? Hard enough, apparently, that
3½ years after my daughter was born, I'm still the only one who can
stomach the task. Baby nail clippers can seem scarily unwieldy next to
those tiny, delicate digits---my husband is certainly not alone in
having drawn blood with them---while files seem to take forever. I
replaced those ungainly tools early on with these
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39077/162832/4/115958/?merchant=Amazon}{nail
scissors}, which make it easy to see what you're doing and to trim off
just the right amount. I love these scissors so much, I bought two more
pairs so I can always have one handy.

\emph{---Winnie Yang, supervising editor}

\hypertarget{nail-clippers-with-guard-rails}{%
\subsection{Nail clippers with guard
rails}\label{nail-clippers-with-guard-rails}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-nailfrida-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: FridaBaby

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39071/162826/4/115959/?merchant=Amazon}{FridaBaby's
NailFrida The SnipperClipper Set}, \$13 at the time of publication}

My 5-month-old is wiggly enough that nail scissors won't cut it (as they
require a bit more precision), but we've found respite in the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39071/162826/4/115959/?merchant=Amazon}{NailFrida
The SnipperClipper Set}. These clippers have a spy-hole design, which
allows you to see exactly what's between the blades before you snip, and
the curved edges are soft enough that they won't cut your baby's skin if
you slip. They're also extra-large, with a plastic panel that makes them
fairly easy to maneuver. Yes, we might still need to sneak a trim in
while he's napping, but these nail clippers, along with the included
S-shaped nail file, have saved his little face from myriad nail
scratches.

\emph{---Jenni Gritters, contributing editor}

\hypertarget{a-game-changing-wipes-dispenser}{%
\subsection{A game-changing wipes
dispenser}\label{a-game-changing-wipes-dispenser}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-oxoperfectpull-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: OXO

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39080/162992/4/115960/?merchant=Amazon}{OXO
Tot PerfectPull Wipes Dispenser}, \$20 at the time of publication}

I'm pretty low-maintenance, and I swore I'd never buy a wipes dispenser.
But now I'm telling you it is a diapering essential, particularly if you
use disposable wipes. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39080/162992/4/115960/?merchant=Amazon}{PerfectPull
Wipes Dispenser} allows you to grab one (only one!) wipe at a time,
using one (only one!) hand. Anyone who has experienced the frustration
of pulling one---or five---too many wipes from a flimsy package while
trying to diaper a squirmy baby will understand the appeal of this \$20
plastic box. Its airtight lid pops open with a push, and a weighted
plate keeps premoistened wipes from emerging all at once. The container
is easy to refill, and there are no tricky corners to clean---a simple
wash and dry every so often keeps dirt at bay. It's no exaggeration to
say that this dispenser was a game changer in my earliest butt-wiping
days of
\href{https://parenting.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/baby/baby-poop}{five or
more poops in 24 hours}. Even now that my son is older, it still makes
every diaper change that much easier.

\emph{---Tracy Vence, editor}

\hypertarget{no-frills-wash-for-sensitive-skin}{%
\subsection{No-frills wash for sensitive
skin}\label{no-frills-wash-for-sensitive-skin}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-aquaphorbaby-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Aquaphor

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39072/162991/4/115961/?merchant=Amazon}{Aquaphor
Baby Wash \& Shampoo}, about \$12 at the time of publication}

My kid has super-sensitive skin and is prone to rashes. After months of
trial and error, I realized that several of the ``natural'' washes I was
using contained fragrant plant oils (like lavender) that smell nice but
are potentially irritating. Now we use
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39072/162991/4/115961/?merchant=Amazon}{Aquaphor
Baby Wash \& Shampoo}. There's nothing fancy about it, but it's
fragrance-free; has a not-too-thick, not-too-thin viscosity that spreads
and foams well; and cleans thoroughly but doesn't overdry. It's also a
bargain---about 12 bucks for a huge, 25-ounce bottle at the time of
writing. That works out to pennies per use, and I have a happier baby.
Win-win.

\emph{---JH}

\hypertarget{a-little-whale-for-a-happier-bath-time}{%
\subsection{A little whale for a happier bath
time}\label{a-little-whale-for-a-happier-bath-time}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-skiphopmobybath-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Skip Hop

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39073/162828/4/115962/?merchant=Amazon}{Skip
Hop Moby Waterfall Rinser}, \$10 at the time of publication}

When my son was small, every new endeavor felt like a risky proposition.
(Is he \emph{really} ready for Cheerios? Will he be okay without a
swaddle?) So imagine my anxiety when my husband and I transitioned from
gently washing his hair with a damp washcloth to actually shampooing and
rinsing. No matter how hard we tried to avoid doing so, we'd inevitably
get water and soap in his eyes. He'd screech and cry, and then we'd get
upset too. Luckily, bath time got a whole lot calmer when my
sister-in-law gifted him this goofy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39073/162828/4/115962/?merchant=Amazon}{rinser}.
As a play thing, it entertained him, helping him settle comfortably in
the tub. As a rinser, it hugged his hairline so we could wash away the
suds without stinging his eyes. We, as parents, enjoyed that gift even
more than our son did.

\emph{---Joanne Chen, senior staff writer}

\hypertarget{readers-also-like}{%
\paragraph{Readers also like}\label{readers-also-like}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats/}{\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/baby-bath-tubs-lowres-9343-120x80.jpg}}

  \hypertarget{the-best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats}{%
  \subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats/}{The
  Best Baby Bathtubs and Bath
  Seats}}{The Best Baby Bathtubs and Bath Seats}}\label{the-best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats}}

  We tested 10 baby bathtubs and bath seats and found the
  \href{https://wclink.co/link/28567/148095/4/81527/?merchant=BuyBuy\%20Baby}{Fisher-Price
  Sling 'n Seat Tub}~is the best basin and the
  \href{https://wclink.co/link/28568/162168/4/81529/?merchant=BuyBuy\%20Baby}{Angelcare
  Baby Bath Support} is the best seat.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{a-brush-that-fights-the-flakes}{%
\subsection{A brush that fights the
flakes}\label{a-brush-that-fights-the-flakes}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-scalpscrubbie-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: Scalp Scrubbie

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon}{Scalp
Scrubbie}, \$9 for a three-pack at the time of publication}

Often called by its innocuous nickname---``cradle cap''---infant
dandruff is real and really common
(\href{https://parenting.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/childrens-health/newborn-body}{up
to 70\% of babies get it}). It's also notoriously hard to get rid of,
and if you do, it quickly comes back. When my child came down with a
case of the flakes, I was thrilled to find the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon}{Sca}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon}{lp
Scrubbie}. It's a gentle dual sponge/scrubber that can be used wet or
dry. I loved that during bath time, I could use the sponge side to bathe
my baby and the scrubber side for shampooing and deflaking. The scrubber
side has the perfect texture to get rid of baby dandruff, and frequent
use seems to stave off future cases. Each of the \$3 sponges lasted
about a month before needing to be replaced, a small price to pay to
have a flake-free baby!

\emph{---Nancy Redd, staff writer}

\hypertarget{the-ultimate-congestion-relief}{%
\subsection{The ultimate congestion
relief}\label{the-ultimate-congestion-relief}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-nosefrida-lowres-120x80.jpg}

Photo: FridaBaby

\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39076/162831/4/115964/?merchant=Amazon}{FridaBaby
Nose Frida the Snotsucker}, \$18 at the time of publication}

This
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39076/162831/4/115964/?merchant=Amazon}{contraption},
which lets you use your mouth to suck boogers right out of your baby's
nostrils, was the most disgusting and also the most useful baby tool we
owned. It's essentially a straw that has a filter inside so the mucus
you extract from your infant or toddler doesn't pass through to your
mouth. Our daughter hated having her nose drained, which made my husband
and I, as new parents, feel guilty when we needed to use this. But
unlike awkward suction bulbs, this sucker works fast. Using it is way
better than the alternative: a miserable, congested baby. As she did
with most remedies for sick kids, our infant protested and then forgot
all about it once she got some relief.

\emph{---Jackie Reeve, senior staff writer}

\hypertarget{about-your-guide}{%
\subsection{About your guide}\label{about-your-guide}}

\includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/20200513_wirecutter_super_t_symbol_96px.png}

Wirecutter Staff

\hypertarget{further-reading}{%
\subsection{Further reading}\label{further-reading}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/things-to-help-your-baby-and-you-sleep-better/}{}

  \includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/baby-sleep-better-3x2-1-120x80.jpg}

  \hypertarget{things-to-help-your-babyand-yousleep-better}{%
  \subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/things-to-help-your-baby-and-you-sleep-better/}{Things
  to Help Your Baby---and You---Sleep
  Better}}{Things to Help Your Baby---and You---Sleep Better}}\label{things-to-help-your-babyand-yousleep-better}}

  by Winnie Yang

  We compared dozens of cribs, mattresses, and monitors and talked to
  doctors Harvey Karp and Bill Sears to find the best bets for a good
  night's sleep.
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers/}{}

  \includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/baby-bouncers-lowres-9905-120x80.jpg}

  \hypertarget{the-best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers}{%
  \subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers/}{The
  Best Baby Bouncers and
  Rockers}}{The Best Baby Bouncers and Rockers}}\label{the-best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers}}

  by Rachael Rifkin

  For parents who want a safe place for their newborns and infants to
  sit, rock, and bounce, these are the best options.
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-monitor/}{}

  \includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/baby-monitors-2018-lowres-5651-120x80.jpg}

  \hypertarget{the-best-baby-monitors}{%
  \subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-monitor/}{The
  Best Baby
  Monitors}}{The Best Baby Monitors}}\label{the-best-baby-monitors}}

  by Harry Sawyers

  The
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/29762/149815/4/86505/?merchant=Amazon}{Eufy
  SpaceView} is better by nearly every measure than other baby monitors.
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home/}{}

  \includegraphics{https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/co-sleepers-top-2x1-lowres1024-0024-120x80.jpg}

  \hypertarget{the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home}{%
  \subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home/}{The
  Things You Need Before You Bring Your Baby
  Home}}{The Things You Need Before You Bring Your Baby Home}}\label{the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home}}

  by Kalee Thompson

  We've tested dozens of car seats, strollers, and diapers to narrow
  down the list of things you really need before you bring your baby
  home.
\end{itemize}

\href{https://thewirecutter.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=156052\&action=edit}{Edit}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/electronics/}{Electronics}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/home-garden/}{Home \& Garden}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/}{Kitchen \& Dining}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/money/}{Money}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/travel/}{Travel}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/gifts/}{Gifts}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/appliances/}{Appliances}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/health-fitness/}{Health \& Fitness}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/baby-kid/}{Baby \& Kid}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/outdoors/}{Outdoors}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/pets/}{Pets}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/}{Hobby \& Crafts}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/software/}{Software \& Apps}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/office/}{Office}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/cars/}{Cars}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/adult/}{Adult}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/deals/}{Deals}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/lists/}{Lists}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/blog/}{Blog}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/about/}{About Wirecutter}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/masthead/}{Masthead}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/jobs/}{Jobs}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/contact-us/}{Contact Us}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription/privacy-policy\#/privacy}{Privacy
  Policy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Use}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription/privacy-policy\#/cookie}{Cookie
  Policy}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/partners/}{Partnerships \& Advertising}
\item
  \href{/wirecutter/feed/}{RSS Feed}
\end{itemize}

Let's be friends!

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/thewirecutter/}{}
\item
  \href{https://www.instagram.com/wirecutter/}{}
\item
  \href{https://twitter.com/wirecutter/}{}
\end{itemize}

You can \href{/wirecutter/contact-us/}{send us a note} too.

© 2020 Wirecutter, Inc., \href{https://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{A New
York Times Company}
