<div id="__next">

<div data-gtm-trigger="blocker-detector" data-detected="false">

</div>

<div class="_4999b0d0 b9c7e44a">

<div class="_742000b1">

<div class="_94d1d3c5">

<div class="fee20893">

<div class="_21fda4ec">

[Wirecutter](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter")

</div>

</div>

</div>

[Skip To Content](#main)

<div class="section d6ea791e">

<span class="a261af7e"> Search Wirecutter For: </span>

<span class="a261af7e"> Search </span>

</div>

Reviews for the real world

  - [Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
      - [All Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
      - [Accessories](/wirecutter/electronics/accessories/)
      - [Audio](/wirecutter/electronics/audio/)
      - [Batteries and Charging](/wirecutter/electronics/batteries/)
      - [Cameras](/wirecutter/electronics/cameras/)
      - [Camera
        Accessories](/wirecutter/electronics/camera-accessories/)
      - [Computers](/wirecutter/electronics/computers/)
      - [Exercise](/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/)
      - [Gaming](/wirecutter/electronics/gaming/)
      - [Headphones](/wirecutter/electronics/headphones/)
      - [Home Theater](/wirecutter/electronics/home-theater/)
      - [Laptops](/wirecutter/electronics/laptops/)
      - [Networking](/wirecutter/electronics/networking/)
      - [Printers & Scanners](/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/)
      - [Projectors](/wirecutter/electronics/projectors/)
      - [Smart Home Devices](/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/)
      - [Smartphones](/wirecutter/electronics/smartphones/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/electronics/storage-devices/)
      - [Tablets](/wirecutter/electronics/tablets/)
      - [TVs](/wirecutter/electronics/tvs/)
      - [USB-C](/wirecutter/electronics/usb-c/)
  - [Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
      - [All Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
      - [Bathroom](/wirecutter/home-garden/bathroom/)
      - [Bedroom](/wirecutter/home-garden/bedroom/)
      - [Cleaning](/wirecutter/home-garden/cleaning/)
      - [Closet & Laundry](/wirecutter/home-garden/closet-laundry/)
      - [Garage](/wirecutter/home-garden/garage/)
      - [Entertaining](/wirecutter/home-garden/entertaining-home/)
      - [Furniture](/wirecutter/home-garden/furniture/)
      - [Gardening](/wirecutter/home-garden/gardening/)
      - [Safety](/wirecutter/home-garden/safety-home-garden/)
      - [Smart Home Devices](/wirecutter/home-garden/smart-home/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/home-garden/storage-home-garden/)
      - [Tools](/wirecutter/home-garden/tools/)
      - [Weather](/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/)
  - [Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
      - [All Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
      - [Baking](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/baking/)
      - [Coffee](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/coffee/)
      - [Cookware](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/cookware/)
      - [Dining &
        Entertaining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/entertaining/)
      - [Large Appliances](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/large-appliances/)
      - [Small Appliances](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/small-appliances/)
      - [Storage](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/storage/)
      - [Tools](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/tools-kitchen-dining/)
      - [Wine & Bar](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/wine-bar/)
  - [Money](/wirecutter/money/)
      - [All Money](/wirecutter/money/)
      - [Shopping](/wirecutter/money/shopping/)
      - [Managing Your Money](/wirecutter/money/managing-money/)
  - <span id="js_medium_overflow"><span class="_546232ed a4c653c2">More
    categories...</span></span>
      - [Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
          - [All Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
          - [Backpacks](/wirecutter/travel/backpacks/)
          - [Bags](/wirecutter/travel/bags/)
          - [Gear](/wirecutter/travel/gear-travel/)
          - [Luggage](/wirecutter/travel/luggage/)
      - [Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
          - [All Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
          - [Gift Guide](/wirecutter/gifts/guide/)
          - [Gifts for Babies & Kids](/wirecutter/gifts/kids/)
          - [Gifts for Grown-Ups](/wirecutter/gifts/adults/)
          - [Mother's Day Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/mothers-day/)
          - [Graduation
        Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/graduation/)
      - <span id="js_large_overflow"><span class="_546232ed a4c653c2">More
        categories...</span></span>
          - [Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
              - [All Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
              - [Large Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/large/)
              - [Small Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/small/)
              - [Vacuum
            Cleaners](/wirecutter/appliances/vacuums/)
          - <span id="js_xlarge_overflow"><span class="_546232ed a4c653c2">More
            categories...</span></span>
              - [Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
                  - [All Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
                  - [Cycling](/wirecutter/health-fitness/cycling/)
                  - [Exercise](/wirecutter/health-fitness/exercise/)
                  - [Medical
                    Supplies](/wirecutter/health-fitness/medical-supplies/)
                  - [Personal
                    Care](/wirecutter/health-fitness/personal-care/)
                  - [Wearables](/wirecutter/health-fitness/wearables/)
              - [Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
                  - [All Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
                  - [Baby](/wirecutter/baby-kid/baby/)
                  - [Pregnancy &
                    Nursing](/wirecutter/baby-kid/pregnancy-nursing/)
                  - [School](/wirecutter/baby-kid/school/)
                  - [Toys](/wirecutter/baby-kid/toys/)
              - [Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
                  - [All Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
                  - [Apparel](/wirecutter/outdoors/apparel/)
                  - [Camping](/wirecutter/outdoors/camping/)
                  - [Gear](/wirecutter/outdoors/gear/)
                  - [Hiking](/wirecutter/outdoors/hiking/)
                  - [Snow](/wirecutter/outdoors/snow/)
                  - [Swim](/wirecutter/outdoors/swim/)
                  - [Weather](/wirecutter/home-garden/weather/)
              - [Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
                  - [All Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
                  - [Cats](/wirecutter/pets/cats/)
                  - [Dogs](/wirecutter/pets/dogs/)
                  - [Gear](/wirecutter/pets/gear-pets/)
              - [Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
                  - [All Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
                  - [Music](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/music/)
              - [Software & Apps](/wirecutter/software/)
              - [Office](/wirecutter/office/)
                  - [All Office](/wirecutter/office/)
                  - [Furniture](/wirecutter/office/furniture-office/)
                  - [Home Office](/wirecutter/office/home-office/)
                  - [Printers &
                    Scanners](/wirecutter/office/printers-scanners/)
              - [Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
                  - [All Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
                  - [Accessories](/wirecutter/cars/accessories-auto/)
              - [Adult](/wirecutter/adult/)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Deals](/wirecutter/deals/)
  - [Blog](/wirecutter/blog/)

</div>

</div>

<div class="_77747668">

<span class="_17ba5dbc" data-aria-label="Statement">Reviews for the real
world.</span>

Wirecutter is reader-supported. When you buy through links on our site,
we may earn an affiliate commission. [Learn
more](/wirecutter/about/)

</div>

<div id="main" class="_7f299612" data-role="main" data-aria-live="assertive" tabindex="-1">

<div class="f4c306dd">

![<span class="_780065ec">Photo: Kyle
Fitzgerald</span>](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-lowres-2x1-6075-320x160.jpg)

<div class="_6b00cab6">

1.  [Baby &
Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
2.  [Baby](/wirecutter/baby-kid/baby/)

# Our Favorite Diaper Creams, Nail and Hair Tools, and Other Baby Care Essentials

<div id="updates-box" class="_796d9c0f _385fe134 e615490e" data-scp="updates">

<span class="e31b86d0">Published </span>June 8, 2020

</div>

</div>

<div class="a3189b1c">

<div class="_01b36464">

Your guide

  - ![Wirecutter
    Staff](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/20200513_wirecutter_super_t_symbol_96px.png)
    
    Wirecutter Staff

</div>

<div class="_72639f16 dee85499" data-scp="social">

Share this review

<div class="_275e2a87" data-icon="twitter-rounded">

</div>

<div class="_275e2a87" data-icon="facebook-rounded">

</div>

<div class="_275e2a87" data-icon="email-rounded">

</div>

</div>

<div class="b022c59c" tabindex="0">

<div class="section e01b5e97" data-gtm-element="lede">

Keeping a squirmy infant clean is a task worthy of Sisyphus—the minute
you get them washed, brushed, and diapered, it’s time to start all over.
But the right tools can make grooming your kid a little less of a
battle. From the best diapering supplies and tiny scissors that keep
sharp nails at bay to a snot sucker that really works and supplies for a
calming bath time, here’s what our staffers use in their own homes with
their own
kids.

</div>

<div>

<div class="section _59af008d" data-gtm-element="intro">

</div>

</div>

<div class="ea6fa72d">

<div data-aria-multiselectable="true" data-role="tablist">

<div id="pastes-for-preventing-diaper-rash" class="section _0e788b68">

## Pastes for preventing diaper rash

<div id="pastes-for-preventing-diaper-rash-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="pastes-for-preventing-diaper-rash" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-triplepaste-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Triple
Paste</span>

**[Triple Paste Medicated
Ointment](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39067/162822/4/115954/?merchant=Amazon),
$30 for a 16-ounce jar at the time of publication**  
**[Aquaphor Baby Healing
Ointment](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39068/162823/4/115955/?merchant=Amazon),
about $10 for a 7-ounce tube at the time of publication**  
**[Boudreaux’s Butt
Paste](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39173/162990/4/116133/?merchant=Amazon),
about $7 for a 4-ounce tube at the time of publication**

Keeping your infant’s skin dry is key to preventing diaper rash. Zinc
oxide and petroleum jelly, the main ingredients in these three picks,
are both great at sealing out moisture. It’s important that a diaper
cream be concentrated enough to last a long time on the skin, and
[Triple Paste Medicated
Ointment](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39067/162822/4/115954/?merchant=Amazon)
is a thick, smooth paste with 12.8% zinc oxide. It’s easy to apply and
gives great protection—slather it on and you can see water bead up on
its surface. It also lasts all night—it’s one of the only creams we’ve
tried that’s still visible on the skin in the morning. [Boudreaux’s Butt
Paste](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39173/162990/4/116133/?merchant=Amazon),
made with 16% zinc oxide, is similarly reliable and moisture resistant.

[Aquaphor Baby Healing
Ointment](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39068/162823/4/115955/?merchant=Amazon)
is another great choice. It’s almost as water-resistant as Triple Paste
and Boudreaux’s Butt Paste, and it’s easier to spread because it’s made
with 41% petroleum jelly. It also contains lanolin and bisabolol, which
are [potential allergens](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27172304).
But those ingredients serve to make this ointment thicker and
longer-lasting than pure petroleum jelly (Vaseline), and that is a plus
when your aim is protecting skin for long periods of time. Unlike zinc,
which leaves a white cast, the Aquaphor ointment is almost invisible,
and it works well on any skin that needs soothing—not just bums.

*—Wirecutter
staff*

</div>

</div>

<div id="a-tiny-hairbrush-for-post-bath-tangles" class="section _0e788b68">

## A tiny hairbrush for post-bath tangles

<div id="a-tiny-hairbrush-for-post-bath-tangles-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="a-tiny-hairbrush-for-post-bath-tangles" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-wetbrush-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Jennifer
Hunter</span>

**[Wet Brush
Mini](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39070/162825/4/115957/?merchant=Amazon),
about $7 at the time of publication**

Despite the fine, soft texture of my daughter’s hair, the first baby
brush I bought for her barely smoothed the surface and did nothing to
detangle the layers underneath. Instead, I found myself reaching for my
adult-size Wet Brush to comb through her post-bath hair. Finally, I got
smart and bought my 1-year-old her own [mini “Squirt”
size](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39070/162825/4/115957/?merchant=Amazon),
which is much easier to maneuver around her little head. Its tines are
firm but flexible; they make quick work of tangles, but somehow never
tug or pull at delicate hair. The handle is also just the right size for
small hands. My daughter hasn’t mastered brushing yet, but she enjoys
waving this brush in the general vicinity of her head. This one comes in
lots of fun colors, too, which helps us find it when it’s accidentally
buried in the toy bin.

*—Jennifer Hunter, supervising
editor*

</div>

</div>

<div id="nail-scissors-that-wont-draw-blood" class="section _0e788b68">

## Nail scissors that won’t draw blood

<div id="nail-scissors-that-wont-draw-blood-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="nail-scissors-that-wont-draw-blood" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-piyopiyo-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Piyo Piyo</span>

**[Piyo Piyo Baby Nail
Scissors](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39077/162832/4/115958/?merchant=Amazon),
$8 at the time of publication**

How hard could trimming a baby’s nails be? Hard enough, apparently, that
3½ years after my daughter was born, I’m still the only one who can
stomach the task. Baby nail clippers can seem scarily unwieldy next to
those tiny, delicate digits—my husband is certainly not alone in having
drawn blood with them—while files seem to take forever. I replaced those
ungainly tools early on with these [nail
scissors](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39077/162832/4/115958/?merchant=Amazon),
which make it easy to see what you’re doing and to trim off just the
right amount. I love these scissors so much, I bought two more pairs so
I can always have one handy.

*—Winnie Yang, supervising
editor*

</div>

</div>

<div id="nail-clippers-with-guard-rails" class="section _0e788b68">

## Nail clippers with guard rails

<div id="nail-clippers-with-guard-rails-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="nail-clippers-with-guard-rails" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-nailfrida-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: FridaBaby</span>

**[FridaBaby’s NailFrida The SnipperClipper
Set](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39071/162826/4/115959/?merchant=Amazon),
$13 at the time of publication**

My 5-month-old is wiggly enough that nail scissors won’t cut it (as they
require a bit more precision), but we’ve found respite in the [NailFrida
The SnipperClipper
Set](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39071/162826/4/115959/?merchant=Amazon).
These clippers have a spy-hole design, which allows you to see exactly
what’s between the blades before you snip, and the curved edges are soft
enough that they won’t cut your baby’s skin if you slip. They’re also
extra-large, with a plastic panel that makes them fairly easy to
maneuver. Yes, we might still need to sneak a trim in while he’s
napping, but these nail clippers, along with the included S-shaped nail
file, have saved his little face from myriad nail scratches.

*—Jenni Gritters, contributing
editor*

</div>

</div>

<div id="a-game-changing-wipes-dispenser" class="section _0e788b68">

## A game-changing wipes dispenser

<div id="a-game-changing-wipes-dispenser-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="a-game-changing-wipes-dispenser" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-oxoperfectpull-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: OXO</span>

**[OXO Tot PerfectPull Wipes
Dispenser](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39080/162992/4/115960/?merchant=Amazon),
$20 at the time of publication**

I’m pretty low-maintenance, and I swore I’d never buy a wipes dispenser.
But now I’m telling you it is a diapering essential, particularly if you
use disposable wipes. The [PerfectPull Wipes
Dispenser](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39080/162992/4/115960/?merchant=Amazon)
allows you to grab one (only one\!) wipe at a time, using one (only
one\!) hand. Anyone who has experienced the frustration of pulling
one—or five—too many wipes from a flimsy package while trying to
diaper a squirmy baby will understand the appeal of this $20 plastic
box. Its airtight lid pops open with a push, and a weighted plate keeps
premoistened wipes from emerging all at once. The container is easy to
refill, and there are no tricky corners to clean—a simple wash and dry
every so often keeps dirt at bay. It’s no exaggeration to say that this
dispenser was a game changer in my earliest butt-wiping days of [five or
more poops in 24
hours](https://parenting.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/baby/baby-poop). Even
now that my son is older, it still makes every diaper change that much
easier.

*—Tracy Vence,
editor*

</div>

</div>

<div id="no-frills-wash-for-sensitive-skin" class="section _0e788b68">

## No-frills wash for sensitive skin

<div id="no-frills-wash-for-sensitive-skin-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="no-frills-wash-for-sensitive-skin" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-aquaphorbaby-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Aquaphor</span>

**[Aquaphor Baby Wash &
Shampoo](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39072/162991/4/115961/?merchant=Amazon),
about $12 at the time of publication**

My kid has super-sensitive skin and is prone to rashes. After months of
trial and error, I realized that several of the “natural” washes I was
using contained fragrant plant oils (like lavender) that smell nice but
are potentially irritating. Now we use [Aquaphor Baby Wash &
Shampoo](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39072/162991/4/115961/?merchant=Amazon).
There’s nothing fancy about it, but it’s fragrance-free; has a
not-too-thick, not-too-thin viscosity that spreads and foams well; and
cleans thoroughly but doesn’t overdry. It’s also a bargain—about 12
bucks for a huge, 25-ounce bottle at the time of writing. That works out
to pennies per use, and I have a happier baby.
Win-win.

*—JH*

</div>

</div>

<div id="a-little-whale-for-a-happier-bath-time" class="section _0e788b68">

## A little whale for a happier bath time

<div id="a-little-whale-for-a-happier-bath-time-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="a-little-whale-for-a-happier-bath-time" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-skiphopmobybath-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Skip Hop</span>

**[Skip Hop Moby Waterfall
Rinser](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39073/162828/4/115962/?merchant=Amazon),
$10 at the time of publication**

When my son was small, every new endeavor felt like a risky proposition.
(Is he *really* ready for Cheerios? Will he be okay without a swaddle?)
So imagine my anxiety when my husband and I transitioned from gently
washing his hair with a damp washcloth to actually shampooing and
rinsing. No matter how hard we tried to avoid doing so, we’d inevitably
get water and soap in his eyes. He’d screech and cry, and then we’d get
upset too. Luckily, bath time got a whole lot calmer when my
sister-in-law gifted him this goofy
[rinser](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39073/162828/4/115962/?merchant=Amazon).
As a play thing, it entertained him, helping him settle comfortably in
the tub. As a rinser, it hugged his hairline so we could wash away the
suds without stinging his eyes. We, as parents, enjoyed that gift even
more than our son did.

*—Joanne Chen, senior staff writer*

#### Readers also like

  - 
    
    <div class="_58de92d9" data-scp="inline_recirc_thumbnail">
    
    [![The Best Baby Bathtubs and Bath
    Seats](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/baby-bath-tubs-lowres-9343-120x80.jpg)](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats/)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="_5c581141">
    
    ### [The Best Baby Bathtubs and Bath Seats](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bathtubs-and-bath-seats/)
    
    <div id="group-text-62691" class="e5c5b063" data-scp="inline_recirc_summary">
    
    We tested 10 baby bathtubs and bath seats and found the
    [Fisher-Price Sling ’n Seat
    Tub](https://wclink.co/link/28567/148095/4/81527/?merchant=BuyBuy%20Baby) is
    the best basin and the [Angelcare Baby Bath
    Support](https://wclink.co/link/28568/162168/4/81529/?merchant=BuyBuy%20Baby)
    is the best
seat.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="a-brush-that-fights-the-flakes" class="section _0e788b68">

## A brush that fights the flakes

<div id="a-brush-that-fights-the-flakes-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="a-brush-that-fights-the-flakes" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-scalpscrubbie-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: Scalp
Scrubbie</span>

**[Scalp
Scrubbie](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon),
$9 for a three-pack at the time of publication**

Often called by its innocuous nickname—“cradle cap”—infant dandruff is
real and really common ([up to 70% of babies get
it](https://parenting.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/childrens-health/newborn-body)).
It’s also notoriously hard to get rid of, and if you do, it quickly
comes back. When my child came down with a case of the flakes, I was
thrilled to find the
[Sca](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon)[lp
Scrubbie](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39074/162829/4/115963/?merchant=Amazon).
It’s a gentle dual sponge/scrubber that can be used wet or dry. I loved
that during bath time, I could use the sponge side to bathe my baby and
the scrubber side for shampooing and deflaking. The scrubber side has
the perfect texture to get rid of baby dandruff, and frequent use seems
to stave off future cases. Each of the $3 sponges lasted about a month
before needing to be replaced, a small price to pay to have a flake-free
baby\!

*—Nancy Redd, staff
writer*

</div>

</div>

<div id="the-ultimate-congestion-relief" class="section _0e788b68">

## The ultimate congestion relief

<div id="the-ultimate-congestion-relief-panel" class="_2a7aeb1f" data-aria-labelledby="the-ultimate-congestion-relief" data-aria-hidden="false" data-role="tabpanel">

![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/babycare-nosefrida-lowres-120x80.jpg)

<span class="wp-caption-text wp-caption-credit">Photo: FridaBaby</span>

**[FridaBaby Nose Frida the
Snotsucker](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39076/162831/4/115964/?merchant=Amazon),
$18 at the time of publication**

This
[contraption](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/39076/162831/4/115964/?merchant=Amazon),
which lets you use your mouth to suck boogers right out of your baby’s
nostrils, was the most disgusting and also the most useful baby tool we
owned. It’s essentially a straw that has a filter inside so the mucus
you extract from your infant or toddler doesn’t pass through to your
mouth. Our daughter hated having her nose drained, which made my husband
and I, as new parents, feel guilty when we needed to use this. But
unlike awkward suction bulbs, this sucker works fast. Using it is way
better than the alternative: a miserable, congested baby. As she did
with most remedies for sick kids, our infant protested and then forgot
all about it once she got some relief.

*—Jackie Reeve, senior staff writer*

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="_8417cc5e" data-scp="author_bios">

<span id="author-bios"></span>

## About your guide

<div>

<div class="_27373f23 c0ddaa47">

![Wirecutter
Staff](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/20200513_wirecutter_super_t_symbol_96px.png)

<div>

Wirecutter
    Staff

<div class="_72639f16" data-scp="social">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="_08177e9e">

## Further reading

  - 
    
    <div class="c064d689">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/things-to-help-your-baby-and-you-sleep-better/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/baby-sleep-better-3x2-1-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="_7693b813">
    
    ### [Things to Help Your Baby—and You—Sleep Better](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/things-to-help-your-baby-and-you-sleep-better/)
    
    by Winnie Yang
    
    <div id="group-text-88623" class="ecf24f89">
    
    We compared dozens of cribs, mattresses, and monitors and talked to
    doctors Harvey Karp and Bill Sears to find the best bets for a good
    night's
    sleep.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="c064d689">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/baby-bouncers-lowres-9905-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="_7693b813">
    
    ### [The Best Baby Bouncers and Rockers](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-bouncers-and-rockers/)
    
    by Rachael Rifkin
    
    <div id="group-text-25181" class="ecf24f89">
    
    For parents who want a safe place for their newborns and infants to
    sit, rock, and bounce, these are the best
    options.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="c064d689">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-monitor/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/baby-monitors-2018-lowres-5651-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="_7693b813">
    
    ### [The Best Baby Monitors](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/reviews/best-baby-monitor/)
    
    by Harry Sawyers
    
    <div id="group-text-8695" class="ecf24f89">
    
    The [Eufy
    SpaceView](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/out/link/29762/149815/4/86505/?merchant=Amazon)
    is better by nearly every measure than other baby
    monitors.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

  - 
    
    <div class="c064d689">
    
    [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home/)
    
    ![](https://cdn.thewirecutter.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/co-sleepers-top-2x1-lowres1024-0024-120x80.jpg)
    
    </div>
    
    <div class="_7693b813">
    
    ### [The Things You Need Before You Bring Your Baby Home](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/wirecutter/lists/the-things-you-need-before-you-bring-your-baby-home/)
    
    by Kalee Thompson
    
    <div id="group-text-88687" class="ecf24f89">
    
    We’ve tested dozens of car seats, strollers, and diapers to narrow
    down the list of things you really need before you bring your baby
    home.
    
    </div>
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div style="display:none" data-arachne="slc_edit_singular_link">

[Edit](https://thewirecutter.com/wp-admin/post.php?post=156052&action=edit)

</div>

<div id="js-site-footer" class="_55042631">

<div class="_80982246">

  - [Electronics](/wirecutter/electronics/)
  - [Home & Garden](/wirecutter/home-garden/)
  - [Kitchen & Dining](/wirecutter/kitchen-dining/)
  - [Money](/wirecutter/money/)
  - [Travel](/wirecutter/travel/)
  - [Gifts](/wirecutter/gifts/)
  - [Appliances](/wirecutter/appliances/)
  - [Health & Fitness](/wirecutter/health-fitness/)
  - [Baby & Kid](/wirecutter/baby-kid/)
  - [Outdoors](/wirecutter/outdoors/)
  - [Pets](/wirecutter/pets/)
  - [Hobby & Crafts](/wirecutter/hobby-crafts/)
  - [Software & Apps](/wirecutter/software/)
  - [Office](/wirecutter/office/)
  - [Cars](/wirecutter/cars/)
  - [Adult](/wirecutter/adult/)
  - [Deals](/wirecutter/deals/)
  - [Lists](/wirecutter/lists/)
  - [Blog](/wirecutter/blog/)

<div class="_9c2e95e4">

  - [About Wirecutter](/wirecutter/about/ "About Wirecutter")
  - [Masthead](/wirecutter/masthead/ "Masthead")
  - [Jobs](/wirecutter/jobs/ "Jobs")
  - [Contact Us](/wirecutter/contact-us/ "Contact Us")

<!-- end list -->

  - [Privacy
    Policy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription/privacy-policy#/privacy "Privacy Policy")
  - [Terms of
    Use](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service "Terms of Use")
  - [Cookie
    Policy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription/privacy-policy#/cookie "Cookie Policy")
  - [Partnerships &
    Advertising](/wirecutter/partners/ "Partnerships & Advertising")
  - [RSS Feed](/wirecutter/feed/ "RSS Feed")

<div class="d7791988 _690dfdce _8f8e22fd">

Let's be
    friends\!

  - [](https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/thewirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Facebook")
  - [](https://www.instagram.com/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Instagram")
  - [](https://twitter.com/wirecutter/ "Wirecutter's Twitter")

You can [send us a note](/wirecutter/contact-us/) too.

</div>

</div>

© 2020 Wirecutter, Inc., [A New York Times
Company](https://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/)

</div>

</div>

</div>
