Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Hunter Biden Admits to `Poor
Judgment' but Denies `Ethical Lapse' in Work Overseas

\url{https://nyti.ms/2oziCxm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{hunter-biden-admits-to-poor-judgment-but-denies-ethical-lapse-in-work-overseas}{%
\section{Hunter Biden Admits to `Poor Judgment' but Denies `Ethical
Lapse' in Work
Overseas}\label{hunter-biden-admits-to-poor-judgment-but-denies-ethical-lapse-in-work-overseas}}

In an interview with ABC News, Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s son rejected as
``ridiculous'' President Trump's suggestions that he and his father had
engaged in wrongdoing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/15/us/politics/15hunterbiden-abc/15hunterbiden-abc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 15, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WESTERVILLE, Ohio --- Hunter Biden, former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr.'s son, said in an interview released on Tuesday that he
probably would not have been named to the board of a foreign company if
his last name weren't Biden
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/exclusive-hiding-plain-sight-hunter-biden-defends-foreign/story?id=66275416}{and
acknowledged} ``poor judgment,'' but he rejected suggestions by
President Trump that he and his father had engaged in wrongdoing.

``Did I make a mistake? Well maybe in the grand scheme of things,
yeah,'' Mr. Biden said in an interview with ABC News. ``But did I make a
mistake based upon some ethical lapse? Absolutely not.''

``I don't think that there's a lot of things that would have happened in
my life if my last name wasn't Biden,'' he said.

The interview comes two days after
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/13/us/politics/hunter-biden-china.html}{Hunter
Biden pledged}that he would not work for foreign-owned companies if his
father became president, and just hours before the CNN/New York Times
Democratic debate held here in central Ohio, an appearance
that\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/14/us/politics/joe-biden-democratic-debate.html}{is
critical to his father's presidential hopes}.

His sudden public comments signal the level of concern among Joseph
Biden's allies that the overseas dealings of the younger Mr. Biden had
become a potentially damaging liability to his father's campaign, and
are the latest in a flurry of actions pro-Biden forces have taken to
mitigate the issue this week ahead of the debate.

Mr. Trump has seized on Hunter Biden's business dealings in Ukraine and
China to initiate a series of unfounded attacks against the former vice
president, a leading Democratic presidential candidate, over the past
month. Mr. Trump also asked the government of Ukraine to investigate the
Bidens, helping to trigger an impeachment inquiry that Mr. Trump now
faces in the House.

There is no evidence that the elder Mr. Biden, while serving as vice
president, improperly intervened to aid his son, but that has not
stopped Mr. Trump and other Republicans from raising questions about
possible conflicts of interest even as Mr. Biden has fiercely defended
his son's integrity, and his own, over the last week.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Hunter Biden, who recently said he would resign from the board of a
Chinese investment company, acknowledged his work abroad has become a
``distraction, because I have to sit here and answer these questions.
And so that's why I have committed that I won't serve on any boards or I
won't work directly for any foreign entities when my dad becomes
president.''

Mr. Biden, 49, said he had exercised ``poor judgment'' by getting
involved in a situation that he compared to a ``swamp.'' But he blamed
his father's opponents, including Mr. Trump, for spreading a
``ridiculous conspiracy idea'' involving his work, and repeatedly
insisted that he did not discuss his business decisions with his father.

``I gave a hook to some very unethical people to act in illegal ways to
try to do some harm to my father,'' he said. ``That's where I made the
mistake. So I take full responsibility for that. Did I do anything
improper? No, not in any way. Not in any way whatsoever.''

Many Democratic strategists and officials have warned that the scrutiny
on the Biden family has become a significant distraction for the former
vice president, and poses perhaps the greatest threat yet to a candidacy
that until recent weeks was well ahead in the polls. That makes it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/14/us/politics/joe-biden-democratic-debate.html}{all
the more urgent} for Mr. Biden to land the kind of consistently fluent,
forceful debate performance that has so far eluded him at a moment when
Senator Elizabeth Warren has now surpassed him in some polls, Democratic
operatives and activists said.

``I'm never a distraction to my dad, but as it relates to actually going
and being onstage with him --- this is not a family business,'' Hunter
Biden said Tuesday in the ABC interview, which aired on ``Good Morning
America'' and was also
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/exclusive-hiding-plain-sight-hunter-biden-defends-foreign/story?id=66275416}{excerpted}\textbf{\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/exclusive-hiding-plain-sight-hunter-biden-defends-foreign/story?id=66275416}{}}\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/exclusive-hiding-plain-sight-hunter-biden-defends-foreign/story?id=66275416}{online}
by the network. ``Everybody kind of thinks that somehow, whether it's a
compliment that we're like the Kennedys or whether it's a, you know,
backhanded compliment like you're the Trumps, my dad has a, a job, but
that does not mean that I have had any plans to go do rallies and, you
know and, you know, talk about Donald Trump's kids and I never will, you
know, that's not what Bidens do.''

At a news conference on Sunday, however, his father did appear to take
some oblique swipes at the ethical practices of members of the Trump
family, some of whom who have conducted their own overseas business
dealings. And Hunter Biden seemed to be dismissive of Donald Trump Jr.,
who along with his father and brother have been highly critical of the
Bidens.

``Donald Prince Humperdinck, um, Trump, Jr., is not somebody I really
care about,'' he said, an apparent reference to a character in the movie
``The Princess Bride.''

In the interview, Hunter Biden signaled that by backing away from
foreign dealings, he hoped to eliminate the controversy as a campaign
issue for his father.

``I'm taking it off the table,'' he said. ``I'm making that commitment.
Let's see if anybody else makes that commitment. But that's the
commitment that I'm making.''

A lawyer for Hunter Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/13/us/politics/hunter-biden-china.html}{said
Sunday in a statement} that he planned to leave the board of the Chinese
private equity company by the end of October, and that if the elder Mr.
Biden were elected president, Hunter Biden would ``agree not to serve on
boards of, or work on behalf of, foreign-owned companies.'' Hunter Biden
had previously served on the board of a Ukrainian gas company, Burisma
Holdings, including during a time when his father was running American
policy in that country, but he stepped down in April, the same month
that the elder Mr. Biden announced his candidacy for the Democratic
nomination.

While the elder Mr. Biden said he learned of the Sunday statement from
his son's lawyers, his campaign is taking steps to address the potential
damage from Mr. Trump's unfounded claims of corruption by the Bidens. On
Monday morning, Mr. Biden's campaign released a plan centered on
promoting ethics in government. His campaign and his allies have said
that Mr. Biden would both push back forcefully against Mr. Trump and
continue to discuss policy matters, like health care, on the debate
stage and on the campaign trail.

The Biden family has faced significant tragedy over the decades: Mr.
Biden's first wife and a baby daughter were killed in a car crash in
1972 that injured Hunter Biden and his brother, Beau. In 2015, Beau
Biden died from brain cancer, influencing his father's decision not to
seek the presidency that year. Hunter Biden has also struggled with
addiction.

Asked if he was concerned that the ``noise'' associated with Mr. Trump's
attacks could affect his sobriety, he replied, ``of course.''

``Look, you don't want to live in the worry of it,'' he added. ``Because
then you're feeding the beast. I have no answer other than this: You've
got to live in the connections that you have to healthy things. And I
have so many of them. And I've got to live there instead of living in
fear like, `Oh my God, the stress is going to make me drink, or the
stress is going to make me use.'''

He also grew emotional when discussing the presidency.

``I take no pleasure in this, watching, watching, this, this death
spiral of this, this administration, this president, and the people that
surround him,'' he said. ``I hope that, that the history isn't fully
written yet.''

\emph{Katie Glueck reported from Westerville, Ohio, and Stephanie Saul
from New York.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
