Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Is This the Trump Tipping
Point?

\href{https://nyti.ms/2BK6jV5}{https://nyti.ms/2BK6jV5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{is-this-the-trump-tipping-point}{%
\section{Is This the Trump Tipping
Point?}\label{is-this-the-trump-tipping-point}}

I know. We've said we've been here a thousand times before. This time
feels different.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-senior}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/26/opinion/jennifer-senior/jennifer-senior-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jennifer-senior}{Jennifer Senior}

Opinion columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/07/opinion/07Senior/merlin_173194773_2ffe5c53-305e-439e-be1c-1ec63018f737-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

You never want to say that you've reached a tipping point with this
administration. Donald J. Trump has proved to be the Nosferatu of
American politics: heartless, partial to Slavs, beneath grace and thus
far impervious to destruction.

Even when I read my colleague Jonathan Martin's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/06/us/politics/trump-biden-republicans-voters.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{fine
piece} on Saturday, about how some high-profile Republicans refuse to
vote for Trump or are struggling with publicly lending him their
support, I thought: yes, \emph{but}. They're just a handful. They're the
usual suspects. Too few of them have coattails.

Yet something right now really is different. I think.

Before diving into the more entrancing developments, I'll start with the
obvious: Trump's old tactics, once so reliable, are starting to fail
him, utterly.

It was a winning strategy to crow about a border wall with Mexico, but
it's a loser --- and a sign of pure cowardice --- to build one around
your own White House. He once basked in the reflected glow of ``his
generals''; now those generals are laying waste to him, with James
Mattis, his former defense secretary,
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/06/james-mattis-denounces-trump-protests-militarization/612640/}{explicitly
condemning} Trump's immature and divisive leadership, and John Kelly,
the president's former chief of staff,
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/john-kelly-trump-military-force-agrees-with-mattis/}{saying
yep, sounds about right.}

Maybe there was a time when religious conservatives would have applauded
a photo of Trump standing in front of St. John's Episcopal Church, Bible
in hand. But using
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/graphics/2020/06/05/george-floyd-protests-trump-church-photo-curfew-park/3127684001/}{pepper
balls and flash-bang grenades} to clear anguished protesters out of the
way backfired. The Episcopal bishop of Washington
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/religion/bishop-budde-trump-church/2020/06/01/20ca70f8-a466-11ea-b619-3f9133bbb482_story.html}{reacted
in horror}; Trump's support among white Catholics
\href{https://www.prri.org/research/trump-favorability-white-catholic-and-non-college-americans-national-unrest-protests/}{slipped
11 points} between April and May.

Maybe there was a time when stigmatizing all progressive protesters as
invading marauders would have worked --- bigotry, it gets the job done
--- but not now. His proposal to suppress the tumult with the military
was greeted
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/03/politics/esper-insurrection-act-protests/index.html}{with
disapproval} by his current secretary of defense, Mark Esper, and
disgust by Mattis; the Black Lives Matter movement now
\href{https://twitter.com/drewlinzer/status/1268284131495964673?s=12}{polls
at an all-time high}, with
\href{https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/new-polls/abc-coronavirus-poll-wave-11}{66
percent of Americans} disapproving of how Trump has handled the response
to George Floyd's death.

Trump is flailing like an overturned turtle. A historic health crisis,
an economic crisis and a social crisis all at once --- it's far too much
for a reality TV star to handle, no more manageable than it'd be for him
to land an airplane. What this moment may have revealed, ironically
enough, is that only in a time of stability and outrageous decadence
could the United States have had the luxury of picking such a dark and
divisive candidate with the intellectual firepower of a water gun. When
Trump asked voters ``What have you got to lose?'' most never dreamed
that the answer could be: Everything.

But now for the subterranean tremors that most beguile me --- a
suggestion that something deeper is afoot.

Trump, right now, is trying to stoke white fears about protests in the
street. But he's having little luck. On Wednesday, Lara Putnam, the
chairman of the history department at the University of Pittsburgh,
tweeted a
\href{https://twitter.com/lara_putnam/status/1268164268161216514}{modest
but persuasive thread} highlighting the easy victory by Summer Lee, a
progressive African-American woman elected to the Pennsylvania
statehouse in 2018, in the Democratic primary on Tuesday.

``Based on the history of the district --- and the range of voters I've
talked to there myself --- it seemed entirely plausible that there would
be white backlash against her in this moment,'' Putnam told me.

If ever there were a moment for a backlash, she pointed out, this would
have been it: Images of social unrest were all over Pittsburgh
television the weekend before the primary, and Lee had been an outspoken
proponent of the protesters. Voters could have selected her primary
opponent, a moderate white borough councilman who
\href{https://www.penncapital-star.com/government-politics/allegheny-county-democratic-committee-endorses-trump-supporter-fails-to-back-african-american-incumbent/}{had
the backing} of the county's most powerful Democrat --- and its
Democratic Party.

Instead, voters doubled down. Lee was already winning on Election Day
--- we now know this, based on mail-in ballots --- and as the ballot
counting continued, she pulled even further ahead. Her victory suggested
that the white suburban women and retirees in her district were unswayed
by Trump's demonizing and dog-whistling.

In these protests, it is possible we are seeing the rumblings of a new
Democratic coalition. On Saturday, Putnam and two of her colleagues
wrote that the scale and geographic diversity of these demonstrations
were
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/06/06/floyd-protests-are-broadest-us-history-are-spreading-white-small-town-america/}{without
American precedent}.

We already know that Trump's support among white women is sliding in the
polls, both with college degrees
\href{http://rookings.edu/blog/fixgov/2020/06/03/new-polling-eroding-support-from-white-working-class-women-threatens-trumps-reelection}{and
without}; it's probably not an accident that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/04/us/politics/murkowski-mattis-trump.html}{the
first Senate Republican} to endorse Mattis' views of Trump was Lisa
Murkowski, a white woman from Alaska. (And perhaps, as Jonathan Martin's
piece hinted, other Republican senators will start to follow, and
refrain from giving him their support.) As Barack Obama pointed out in
his recent town hall,
``\href{https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/barack-obama-speech-transcript-on-george-floyd-death-protests}{a
far more representative cross-section of America}'' is out protesting in
the streets than in the 1960s.

At a time of genuine crisis, Americans aren't pining for Darth Vader.
They're pining for a healer. It's healing words of empathy that have
thus far won the day. Trump may have been fumbling with his Bible, but
it was Nancy Pelosi
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/06/02/politics/nancy-pelosi-trump-church-response/index.html}{who
read aloud from Ecclesiastes}, and it was Joe Biden who said in a
heartfelt,
\href{https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/joe-biden-philadelphia-speech-transcript-on-protests-for-george-floyd}{24-minute
speech} that he wished the president would open it every once in a
while.

It's probably too much to hope for. But for the first time in three
years, change is not.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
