Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/golf}{Golf}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/golf}{Golf}\textbar{}Danielle Kang Worked Through
Her L.P.G.A. Break. It Shows.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3kZ8A0y}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{danielle-kang-worked-through-her-lpga-break-it-shows}{%
\section{Danielle Kang Worked Through Her L.P.G.A. Break. It
Shows.}\label{danielle-kang-worked-through-her-lpga-break-it-shows}}

With two wins since the lockdown, a golfer long known for her promise
appears to be fulfilling it as she arrives at the Women's British Open.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/sports/19kang1/merlin_175522974_204d1167-9253-4280-86fd-d6da7d1cd985-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/karen-crouse}{Karen
Crouse}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- The golfer Danielle Kang has a small tattoo on her right
index finger to remind her of her parents' advice to be herself. ``Just
be,'' it reads. But those words took on added meaning after the
coronavirus crisis shut down the L.P.G.A. Tour in February, and Kang
found herself atop a receding wave.

At the time the schedule was suspended, Kang, 27, had recorded four
top-three finishes, including a victory, in her previous five starts.
She was No. 4 in the world, as near as she had ever been to the women's
world No. 1 ranking, a position that had seemed her destiny since she
turned pro at the age of 18, less than five years after taking up the
game.

To be heralded as a budding star while still essentially an apprentice
had created a perception gap that Kang, a two-time
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/09/sports/golf/womens-amateur-gabi-ruffels.html}{U.S.
Women's Amateur} champion, had tried to close with impatience. That left
the people around her worried as she entered lockdown. She was always so
hard on herself, they thought. Would the negative thoughts churned by
Kang's inner dialogue overwhelm her during a pandemic?

Stripped of the peripatetic lifestyle that grounded her, could Kang, a
searcher wrapped in intensity inside a bubble, just be?

The question hung in the air for five long months, but when the L.P.G.A.
tour resumed recently with two events in Ohio, the answer was clear:
Kang won both events to ascend to No. 2 in the world, within striking
distance of South Korea's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/29/sports/golf/jin-young-ko-bogey-lpga.html}{Jin
Young Ko}, who has held the top spot for more than a year, as Kang
begins play this week at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/sports/golf/womens-british-open-spectators-lpga.html}{Women's
British Open} at Royal Troon.

In Las Vegas, where Kang, a native San Franciscan, lives, the
\href{https://www.reviewjournal.com/sports/golf/some-locals-upset-golf-courses-stay-open-during-pandemic-2002223/}{courses
remained open} during lockdown, she said, and she took full advantage.
She worked with her coach, Butch Harmon, hitting shots with one of her
least-favorite clubs, the 3-wood, until she had complete confidence in
it. She also regularly engaged her boyfriend, Maverick McNealy, a PGA
Tour rookie, in two- and three-hour contests around the green, stoking
her competitive fire and refining her short game.

Image

Kang picked up her first win of the year on Aug. 2 at the L.P.G.A. Drive
On Championship in Toledo, Ohio.Credit...Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press

Image

A week later she celebrated with another trophy after winning the
Marathon L.P.G.A. Classic.Credit...Gregory Shamus/Getty Images

``People asked me left and right, `Are you bummed you're not playing
when you were playing so good?''' Kang said in a Zoom interview ahead of
last week's Ladies Scottish Open. ``They asked me, `What are you going
to do if you're not playing good when you come back?'''

It was a case of two negatives --- other people's and hers --- equaling
a positive. ``I've got this time,'' she recalled thinking of her
pandemic break, ``and I'm going to utilize it as best I can to tune up
my game.''

The hard work allowed Kang to pick up where she left off. Over the past
10 months, Kang's lowest finish in eight tour starts is a tie for 12th.
She has three victories, one second and two thirds. Last week, she tied
for fifth, one shot out of a four-way playoff, at the Scottish Open.

``She has been doing amazing things,'' marveled Collin Morikawa, who won
the P.G.A. Championship two weeks ago. Morikawa, who also lives in Las
Vegas, added, ``That's Tiger-esque type things, almost winning three
times in a row.''

This week, Kang will try to collect her second major title, and sixth
pro victory, at the Women's British Open.

The player she is chasing in the rankings, Ko, will be conspicuous by
her absence. Ko, who won two of last year's five women's majors, has not
made an L.P.G.A. Tour start since the 2019 season-ending Tour
Championship. Ko's manager
\href{https://www.golfchannel.com/news/world-nos-1-and-3-staying-sideline-even-major-lpga-returns}{told
Golf Channel.com} last month that Ko's return to the tour --- and
specifically the events around the British Open --- is up in the air
because of her concerns about Covid-19 containment in the United Kingdom
and the United States. For the time being, Ko is playing on the Korean
L.P.G.A. circuit, which allows her to stay close to her home base in
Seoul.

South Korean players have won five of the 12 majors contested since
Kang's victory in the 2017 Women's P.G.A. Championship, but global
representation has become the tour's calling card; players from four
countries have won the seven tournaments contested
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/29/sports/golf/coronavirus-lpga-tour-golf.html}{in
this disjointed season}.

Kang, an American of South Korean descent, said she has kept in contact
``with quite a few'' of her Korean friends on the tour. The competitor
in her wishes they were all at Royal Troon this week, but she said she
recognizes that the hardships and hazards of traveling abroad during a
pandemic have made playing a moot point for some.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/sports/19kang2/merlin_175243311_5af9fd39-fe6f-471b-b735-a000582728f1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I do the best I can to understand from everyone's perspective,'' Kang
said.

The delicate ecosystem of sports in the coronavirus age was driven home
last week with the cancellation, because of health concerns and
significant travel restrictions, of the tour's October stop in Shanghai,
where Kang is the two-time defending champion.

Kang praised the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/sports/golf/pga-lpga-tour-caddies-coronavirus.html}{virus-prevention
protocols} in place at the first L.P.G.A. events of the tour's restart.
Of the Women's British Open, she said, ``As long as it was possible, I
was coming.''

The PGA Tour resumed tournaments a month before the LPGA, allowing Kang
to employ McNealy, 24, as a kind of advance scout for her strange, new
world. She quizzed him about testing protocols. She asked him what he
considered the toughest adjustment returning to tour play after such a
long layoff. He told her to ditch a cart and walk the course during her
practice rounds.

And after his first week back, when he was back to having to hit
approaches at pins that weren't in the middle of the greens, McNealy
called the greenskeepers at TPC Summerlin, the Las Vegas course where
Kang was preparing, with a favor. ``He asked them to tuck all the pins
for me the last few days of my practice,'' Kang said.

The gesture was vintage McNealy, she said. ``He's so supportive of the
way I am, as a golfer and as a person,'' she added. ``That's the best
way I can put it.''

The same week that Kang won the LPGA Drive One Championship in Toledo,
Ohio, in the L.P.G.A.'s return, McNealy finished seventh at the
Barracuda Championship in Truckee, Calif., which was his sixth
tournament back. When they talked that night, McNealy's excitement for
Kang's success was palpable, she said.

``He's able to put his own dreams aside and be so happy for me,'' she
said. ``And be happy with me. That's hard to do, especially when you're
in the same career.''

Kang is on the cusp of becoming the third American woman since 2006,
after Cristie Kerr and Stacy Lewis, to occupy the No. 1 spot. That would
fulfill the prediction that her coach, Harmon, made when they began
working together in 2018.

As soon as Kang believed that she was as good as everybody could see
that she was, Harmon told her, watch out world. That should have been
empowering, coming from a teacher who has worked with Tiger Woods, Phil
Mickelson and Dustin Johnson. But Kang still can't help herself.

``He'll say something and I'll say, `Are you sure?''' Kang said,
laughing. ``And he'll look at me and say: `Am I sure? Listen to me. I
know what good looks like.'''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
