Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump to Nominate Patrick
Shanahan as Pentagon Chief

\url{https://nyti.ms/2vMIcil}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-to-nominate-patrick-shanahan-as-pentagon-chief}{%
\section{Trump to Nominate Patrick Shanahan as Pentagon
Chief}\label{trump-to-nominate-patrick-shanahan-as-pentagon-chief}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/05/10/us/politics/10dc-shanahan/merlin_153371493_70e6cffc-083f-4fbe-91f8-71abb1b3e7bc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/helene-cooper}{Helene Cooper} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-gibbons-neff}{Thomas
Gibbons-Neff}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 9, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump will nominate Patrick M. Shanahan as his
second defense secretary, trying to cement the acting Pentagon chief
against an expected challenging battle with lawmakers and Defense
Department officials skeptical of him, White House officials said on
Thursday.

The announcement, in a tweet from Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White
House press secretary, followed a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/25/us/politics/defense-shanahan-boeing-cleared.html?searchResultPosition=1}{monthlong
Pentagon ethics investigation} that found that Mr. Shanahan, a former
Boeing executive, had not acted improperly in official meetings when
discussing military contractors.

Announcing the nomination in a Twitter statement from his press
secretary, Mr. Trump eschewed the usual pomp and ceremony that comes
with putting forth his nominee to lead the country's 1.2 million
active-duty military troops.

Ms. Sanders said that Mr. Trump intended to nominate Mr. Shanahan
because of his ``outstanding service to the country and his demonstrated
ability to lead.'' She trumpeted Mr. Shanahan's dual graduate degrees,
in engineering and business administration, from the ``Massachusetts
Institution of Technology.'' (It is actually the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.)

Mr. Shanahan's nomination will most likely fuel criticism among
lawmakers and Defense Department officials who believe he does not have
enough foreign policy experience to run the largest bureaucracy in the
American government, one that oversees national security issues around
the world.

Until December, Mr. Shanahan was a little-known Pentagon official who
had previously worked at Boeing and had served as the deputy defense
secretary since the start of the Trump administration. That changed when
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/20/us/politics/jim-mattis-defense-secretary-trump.html}{stepped
down} in protest of Mr. Trump's policies --- including the president's
surprise announcement that American troops
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/19/us/politics/trump-syria-turkey-troop-withdrawal.html}{would
withdraw from Syria}.

By contrast, Mr. Shanahan
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/26/us/politics/patrick-shanahan-trump.html}{has
held the line for Mr. Trump}.

As the deputy defense secretary, Mr. Shanahan made clear that ``we are
not the Department of No,'' as he told officials after the Trump
administration announced plans to create a stand-alone Space Force at
the Pentagon. It has since been moved to the oversight of the Air Force.

Mr. Shanahan has also steadfastly supported Mr. Trump's policy to build
a wall along the Mexican border, as well as the continued deployment of
thousands of American troops there.

In February, Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and the
chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said he believed Mr. Shanahan
did not have the ``humility'' of Mr. Mattis, though he did not
elaborate. But in an
\href{https://foreignpolicy.com/2019/04/17/the-trials-of-patrick-shanahan-acting-defense-secretary-pentagon-trump-mattis-china-turkey/}{April
17 interview} with Foreign Policy magazine, Mr. Inhofe said he would
welcome Mr. Shanahan's nomination after the Pentagon's ethics
investigation had concluded.

Senators have also pressed Mr. Shanahan to explain Mr. Trump's move to
take billions of dollars from the Defense Department for a border wall,
as well as the Pentagon's decision to push for weaker standards on
chemicals in drinking water.

The Pentagon's proposed \$718 billion budget for the 2020 fiscal year is
geared toward combating threats from Russia and China and modernizing a
military that has long focused on counterinsurgency conflicts.

Before he was nominated as deputy defense secretary in 2017, Mr.
Shanahan had spent 30 years in commercial aviation and business at
Boeing. He had hoped to bring his reputation as a corporate problem
solver --- including helping to introduce the 787 Dreamliner --- to the
Defense Department.

His nomination had been pending during the ethics investigation and
after a second deadly crash in five months of a Boeing commercial jet
that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/us/politics/boeing-faa.html}{raised
questions} about the manufacturer's close relationships with federal
officials.

Mr. Shanahan had managed to dodge being directly tied to the fallout
after the two Boeing 737 Max 8 jets crashed ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/04/world/asia/ethiopia-crash-boeing.html?module=inline}{in
March in Ethiopia} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/03/world/asia/lion-air-plane-crash-pilots.html?module=inline}{in
October off the Indonesian coast}. And no Dreamliners have failed like
those planes.

The inspector general's report, released last month, cleared Mr.
Shanahan of impropriety but also cited numerous meetings at the Pentagon
during which Defense Department officials said he had promoted his
experiences solving production problems on the Dreamliner as techniques
that should be copied by the government.

Mr. Shanahan is well known for playing a key role in rescuing the
Dreamliner during his career at Boeing when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/01/business/patrick-shanahan-pentagon-nominee.html?module=inline}{delays
and cost overruns} threatened the future of that project.

The praise could come back to hurt him: Boeing's plant in North
Charleston, S.C., where the Dreamliner is built, has been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/20/business/boeing-dreamliner-production-problems.html?module=inline}{plagued
by employee complaints} about safety issues on the plane stemming from
the rapid pace that was pushed by management to meet quotas.

Two weeks ago, Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on
the Armed Services Committee, said the ethics investigation ``shows the
wide swath of national security matters that Acting Secretary Shanahan
is barred from, which strikes me as something the Senate needs to
consider.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
