Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  York Times Poll}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  Deadlines}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{court-ruling-deals-blow-to-ex-felons-voting-rights-in-florida}{%
\section{Court Ruling Deals Blow to Ex-Felons' Voting Rights in
Florida}\label{court-ruling-deals-blow-to-ex-felons-voting-rights-in-florida}}

Last Updated

Sept. 11, 2020, 8:59 p.m. ET

Sept. 11, 2020, 8:59 p.m. ET

Joe Biden commemorated Sept. 11 in New York and Shanksville, Pa., where
President Trump also traveled. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who faces
a tough re-election, debated her challenger, Sara Gideon, tonight.

\emph{This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{\emph{Follow
our latest coverage of the 2020 election}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{in-a-reversal-a-federal-appeals-court-says-florida-felons-must-pay-fines-and-fees-before-voting}{}

  In a reversal, a federal appeals court says Florida felons must pay
  fines and fees before voting.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{with-9-11-memorials-transformed-by-the-virus-biden-and-trump-honor-the-dead}{}

  With 9/11 memorials transformed by the virus, Biden and Trump honor
  the dead.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-top-aide-assigned-to-scrutinize-the-trump-russia-investigation-resigns-from-the-justice-department}{}

  A top aide assigned to scrutinize the Trump-Russia investigation
  resigns from the Justice Department.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-department-of-homeland-security-formed-after-9-11-is-accused-of-distorting-intelligence-to-please-trump}{}

  The Department of Homeland Security, formed after 9/11, is accused of
  distorting intelligence to please Trump.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{some-fast-growing-militia-groups-are-attracting-veterans}{}

  Some fast-growing militia groups are attracting veterans.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{senator-susan-collins-of-maine-a-vulnerable-republican-and-sara-gideon-faced-off-in-their-first-debate}{}

  Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a vulnerable Republican, and Sara
  Gideon faced off in their first debate.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-democratic-challenger-to-a-qanon-candidate-in-georgia-has-dropped-out}{}

  The Democratic challenger to a QAnon candidate in Georgia has dropped
  out.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{in-a-reversal-a-federal-appeals-court-says-florida-felons-must-pay-fines-and-fees-before-voting}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-a-reversal-a-federal-appeals-court-says-florida-felons-must-pay-fines-and-fees-before-voting}{In
a reversal, a federal appeals court says Florida felons must pay fines
and fees before
voting.}}{In a reversal, a federal appeals court says Florida felons must pay fines and fees before voting.}}\label{in-a-reversal-a-federal-appeals-court-says-florida-felons-must-pay-fines-and-fees-before-voting}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-florida-11-13-33/merlin_175878543_fa176546-810e-4541-b7fc-901f2a6ea763-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a significant reversal, the United States Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit in Atlanta ruled on Friday that a Florida law requiring
people with serious criminal convictions to pay court fines and fees
before they can register to vote is constitutional.

The decision overturned
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/24/us/florida-felon-voting-court-judge-ruling.html}{a
ruling by a lower court in May} that found the law discriminated against
the majority of felons, many of whom are indigent, by imposing an
unlawful ``pay-to-vote system.''

The ruling, if upheld, will put new hurdles in place for people
convicted of crimes who are seeking to vote, after Florida's voters had
amended the state's Constitution in 2018 to end the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/11/us/voting-rights-felons.html}{disenfranchisement}
of those convicted of felonies, except for murder and sexual offenses.
And with Florida a perennially close state in presidential elections,
the decision could help shape the outcome this year.

The appeals court sided with the administration of Gov. Ron DeSantis, a
Republican, and found that the felons who sued had failed to prove the
law violated the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment to the
Constitution. It reversed the prior ruling by the United States District
Court in Tallahassee.

``If a State may decide that those who commit serious crimes are
presumptively unfit for the franchise,'' the 11th Circuit ruled, ``it
may also conclude that those who have completed their sentences are the
best candidates for re-enfranchisement.''

At issue was a Florida law passed by the Republican-controlled
Legislature and signed by Mr. DeSantis last year that required those
convicted of felonies to settle their financial obligations to court
before having their voting eligibility restored.

The law was passed after an overwhelming majority of Florida voters in
2018
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/07/us/florida-felon-voting-rights.html}{approved
Amendment 4, a landmark measure} that automatically restored voting
rights for people who have completed their sentences for felonies other
than murder and sex crimes.

Lawyers for the DeSantis administration argued at trial that voters knew
that felons would first have to pay their outstanding debts before
becoming eligible to vote, a notion civil rights groups dismissed,
countering that the state had no centralized system to let people know
how much they might owe.

With Florida elections frequently decided by tiny margins, the
restoration of felons' voting rights was seen as a way to expand the
electorate in the nation's biggest presidential battleground state. An
expert for the American Civil Liberties Union and the other civil rights
groups testified at trial that more than 774,000 felons in the state owe
legal financial obligations. Most criminal defendants are indigent when
they are arrested.

``This ruling runs counter to the foundational principle that Americans
do not have to pay to vote,'' said Julie Ebenstein, a senior staff
attorney with the A.C.L.U.'s Voting Rights Project. ``The gravity of
this decision cannot be overstated. It is an affront to the spirit of
democracy.''

When the trial was held in May, Florida's division of elections had
received 85,000 voter registrations from felons who believed they had
been re-enfranchised by Amendment 4. Under state law, the division must
screen those registrations to see whether the would-be voters had failed
to pay their financial obligations. Only then could they be removed from
the voter rolls, the appeals court said.

``Florida has yet to complete its screening of any of the
registrations,'' the appeals ruling noted. ``Until it does, it will not
have credible and reliable information supporting anyone's removal from
the voter rolls, and all 85,000 felons will be entitled to vote.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia
Mazzei}

\hypertarget{with-911-memorials-transformed-by-the-virus-biden-and-trump-honor-the-dead}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{with-9-11-memorials-transformed-by-the-virus-biden-and-trump-honor-the-dead}{With
9/11 memorials transformed by the virus, Biden and Trump honor the
dead.}}{With 9/11 memorials transformed by the virus, Biden and Trump honor the dead.}}\label{with-911-memorials-transformed-by-the-virus-biden-and-trump-honor-the-dead}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-lede-item-sub/11elections-briefing-lede-item-sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The two presidential contenders put their acrimonious political sparring
on hold on Friday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html}{to
pay their respects to the Americans killed} in the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, a pause in an extraordinarily polarizing race in which the
candidates have offered drastically different visions on virtually every
issue, including what it means to comfort a grieving nation.

Nineteen years after that tragedy shook the country's sense of
invincibility, Americans find themselves tested by another deadly
crisis. This week, the death toll from the coronavirus surpassed 190,000
people --- nearly 65 times the number who died on Sept. 11.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} and President Trump honored the victims of the attacks at
public rituals that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/nyregion/9-11-ceremony-September-11th.html}{have
been altered to accommodate the realities of public gatherings during a
pandemic.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{Mr.
Trump} offered somber remarks in Shanksville, Pa., honoring those who
died on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/09/13/us/after-attacks-united-flight-93-doomed-flight-passengers-vowed-perish-fighting.html}{Flight
93}, the plane that was hijacked and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/07/22/politics/details-emerge-on-flight-93.html}{headed
for Washington} but instead crashed into a field after passengers fought
back.

``Our sacred task, our righteous duty and our solemn pledge is to carry
forward the noble legacy of the brave souls who gave their lives for us
19 years ago,'' Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Biden traveled to New York before visiting Shanksville to
commemorate the 19th anniversary of the attacks, speaking with family
members of the victims but not making a formal address.

Mr. Biden and his wife, Jill, attended the National September 11
Memorial \& Museum's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/nyregion/9-11-ceremony-September-11th.html}{commemoration
ceremony} in Lower Manhattan, standing with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New
York for much of the time. Then the Bidens traveled to Shanksville,
where Mr. Biden laid a wreath of white flowers at the Flight 93 National
Memorial and met family members of some of those who died. (Mr. Trump,
during his morning visit there, also laid a wreath of white flowers in
front of the wall of names, but he did not meet with any family
members.)

``One of the marks of being an American is understanding there are some
things that are bigger and more important than yourself,'' Mr. Biden
said in Pennsylvania. He marveled at those who ``consciously know that
what you're about to do is likely to cost you your life.''

Earlier in the day, Mr. Biden, the former vice president, promised
reporters that he would not ``talk about anything other than 9/11.''

``We took all our advertising down,'' Mr. Biden, clad in a black mask,
said early Friday morning at the airport in Delaware. ``It's a solemn
day. That's how we're going to keep it.''

The rituals marked a far more extensive display of national grief than
has been mounted for those killed by the coronavirus. Despite the daily
death toll, American political leaders have not engaged in any kind of
significant ritual of national mourning.

The president, for his part, kept up an onslaught of scathing and
sometimes false claims about Mr. Biden over issues from trade to his
approach to America's suburbs. In rallies, tweets and press briefings,
he attacked the former vice president as a hostage of the Democratic
left who would preside over a lawless nation. And by later on Friday
afternoon, Mr. Trump was back to
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1304511871152795650?s=20}{tweeting}
combatively at Democrats.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trumps-lawyers-argue-his-appeal-in-case-over-tax-returns}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trumps-lawyers-argue-his-appeal-in-case-over-tax-returns}{Trump's
lawyers argue his appeal in case over tax
returns.}}{Trump's lawyers argue his appeal in case over tax returns.}}\label{trumps-lawyers-argue-his-appeal-in-case-over-tax-returns}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-trump-tax/merlin_176870601_1a95667d-dcdb-4e69-8dd0-de3a62599e8e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump's lawyers on Friday argued that a federal appeals court
should reverse a lower-court ruling that said the Manhattan district
attorney could obtain Mr. Trump's tax returns as part of a criminal
investigation, accusing the judge who wrote the decision of ``stacking
the deck'' against him.

The president's filing was the latest turn in a legal fight that began
in August 2019, when the office of Cyrus R. Vance Jr., a Democrat,
issued a grand jury subpoena to Mr. Trump's accounting firm, Mazars USA,
seeking eight years of his personal and corporate tax returns and other
financial records in a criminal investigation focused on Mr. Trump, his
business and his associates.

Mr. Trump lost an initial battle in July when the Supreme Court rejected
his argument that, as a sitting president, he was immune from criminal
investigation. But it said he could return before the lower-court judge,
Victor Marrero, and raise objections to the subpoena's relevance and
scope.

In August, Judge Marrero rejected the president's arguments that the
subpoena was ``wildly overbroad'' and issued in bad faith. In their
appeal, the president's lawyers wrote on Friday that Judge Marrero
wrongly characterized Mr. Trump's arguments ``as a `back door' attempt
to re-argue presidential immunity.''

Mr. Vance's office is to file its response on Sept. 21.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser}

\hypertarget{a-top-aide-assigned-to-scrutinize-the-trump-russia-investigation-resigns-from-the-justice-department}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-top-aide-assigned-to-scrutinize-the-trump-russia-investigation-resigns-from-the-justice-department}{A
top aide assigned to scrutinize the Trump-Russia investigation resigns
from the Justice
Department.}}{A top aide assigned to scrutinize the Trump-Russia investigation resigns from the Justice Department.}}\label{a-top-aide-assigned-to-scrutinize-the-trump-russia-investigation-resigns-from-the-justice-department}}

A top aide to the criminal prosecutor whom Attorney General William P.
Barr assigned to scrutinize the Trump-Russia investigation has resigned
unexpectedly from the Justice Department, a spokesman said Friday.

It was not immediately clear why the official, Nora R. Dannehy --- a
trusted assistant to John H. Durham, the prosecutor leading the
investigation and the United States attorney in Connecticut --- stepped
down.

But The Hartford Courant,
\href{https://www.courant.com/news/connecticut/hc-news-john-durham-dannehy-resignation-20200911-20200911-xcsapnq7g5e63kvtw5aqi7cv34-story.html}{which
first reported her departure,} cited unidentified colleagues in Mr.
Durham's office as saying that she had expressed concerns in recent
weeks about pressure from Mr. Barr to deliver results ahead of the
presidential election in November.

Ms. Dannehy did not respond to a voice mail message seeking comment. A
spokeswoman for Mr. Barr, Kerri Kupec, referred questions to Mr.
Durham's office in Connecticut. His spokesman, Thomas Carson, said: ``We
can confirm that Nora Dannehy has left the Department of Justice. No
further comment from us.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/charlie-savage}{Charlie
Savage}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-benner}{Katie
Benner}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-goldman}{Adam
Goldman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil Vigdor}

\hypertarget{the-department-of-homeland-security-formed-after-911-is-accused-of-distorting-intelligence-to-please-trump}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-department-of-homeland-security-formed-after-9-11-is-accused-of-distorting-intelligence-to-please-trump}{The
Department of Homeland Security, formed after 9/11, is accused of
distorting intelligence to please
Trump.}}{The Department of Homeland Security, formed after 9/11, is accused of distorting intelligence to please Trump.}}\label{the-department-of-homeland-security-formed-after-911-is-accused-of-distorting-intelligence-to-please-trump}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-homelandsecurity2/merlin_176462889_4b322196-c003-416d-b995-384393d3686c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Department of Homeland Security was built after the attacks of Sept.
11, 2001, to keep federal, state and local governments coordinated on
national security threats.

But in a whistle-blower
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/homeland-security-whistleblower/0819ec9ee29306a5/full.pdf}{complaint}
filed this week, Brian Murphy, the department's former intelligence
chief, said its senior leaders directed him to do the opposite: to
downplay the primary national security threats of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-homeland-security-extremism.html}{white
supremacy} and Russian election interference, thus distorting
intelligence to mirror the President Trump's rhetoric.

The allegations, coming less than two months before Election Day, add to
the growing evidence that Mr. Trump has prioritized his own political
goals over the word of his intelligence officials, and that the Homeland
Security Department has become an instrument of his personal will. Mr.
Murray's complaint reflects the ongoing turmoil at Homeland Security and
is another front in Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/08/magazine/us-russia-intelligence.html}{battle}
with the government's intelligence agencies.

Mr. Murphy is not the agency's first high-ranking official to rebel. A
former Homeland Security Department chief of staff, Miles Taylor, and a
top counterterrorism analyst for the department, Elizabeth Neumann, have
also emerged as sharp voices of dissent after claiming the White House
did not take the threat of white nationalism seriously, even after
analysts found that such
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/01/us/politics/white-supremacy-homeland-security.html}{racists
were significantly more deadly} than far-left groups.

But Mr. Murphy is still at the department, even after Chad F. Wolf, the
acting secretary of Homeland Security, demoted him when reports emerged
that his office
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/us/politics/brian-murphy-homeland-security-protesters.html}{made
note of American journalists} who had published leaked documents ---
including them in intelligence briefings his office shared with law
enforcement agencies.

Mr. Murphy said in the whistle-blower complaint that the demotion was
retaliation for his clashes with Mr. Wolf over what he asserted were
efforts to warp intelligence reports.

``Why did D.H.S. come into existence? It came in to share information
that state and local partners weren't getting,'' said Chuck Wexler, the
executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, a law
enforcement policy organization. ``It filled a void that didn't exist.
So if you start to filter that information, we're back to square one.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/adam-goldman}{Adam Goldman}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{some-fast-growing-militia-groups-are-attracting-veterans}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{some-fast-growing-militia-groups-are-attracting-veterans}{Some
fast-growing militia groups are attracting
veterans.}}{Some fast-growing militia groups are attracting veterans.}}\label{some-fast-growing-militia-groups-are-attracting-veterans}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-militia/merlin_176623881_4b54b064-1027-465a-bfaf-ca149bd3ad1d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Emboldened by President Trump's campaign platform of law and order,
militia groups have bolstered their strength before Election Day by
attracting military veterans who bring weapons and tactical skills
viewed as important to the organizations.

The role of veterans in the newly proliferating militia groups --- which
sometimes are steeped in racism and other times steeped simply in
antigovernment zealotry --- has increased over the last decade, said a
dozen experts on law enforcement, domestic terrorism and extremist
groups.

Although only a small fraction of the nation's 20 million veterans joins
militia groups, experts in domestic terrorism and law enforcement
analysts estimate that veterans and active-duty members of the military
may now make up at least 25 percent of militia rosters. These experts
estimate that there are some 15,000 to 20,000 active militia members in
around 300 groups.

But gauging the size of these groups is difficult and imprecise, because
much of their membership is limited to online participation. The
estimates are based on samplings of militia member data gleaned from
social media profiles, blogs, online forums, militia publications,
interviews, assessments from watchdog groups and news reports.

At least four recently formed violent organizations were founded by
military veterans, and many high-profile episodes stemming from militia
groups ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/us/steven-carrillo-air-force-boogaloo.html}{the
killing of a federal security officer in May} in Oakland, Calif.,
\href{https://apnews.com/6223153093f08fa910c4ab445771b773}{a thwarted
plan} to incite violence at a recent demonstration in Las Vegas and
\href{https://www.propublica.org/article/atomwaffen-division-hate-group-active-duty-military}{the
violence during a 2017 protest} in Charlottesville, Va. --- involved
veterans.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-steinhauer}{Jennifer
Steinhauer}

\hypertarget{senator-susan-collins-of-maine-a-vulnerable-republican-and-sara-gideon-faced-off-in-their-first-debate}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{senator-susan-collins-of-maine-a-vulnerable-republican-and-sara-gideon-faced-off-in-their-first-debate}{Senator
Susan Collins of Maine, a vulnerable Republican, and Sara Gideon faced
off in their first
debate.}}{Senator Susan Collins of Maine, a vulnerable Republican, and Sara Gideon faced off in their first debate.}}\label{senator-susan-collins-of-maine-a-vulnerable-republican-and-sara-gideon-faced-off-in-their-first-debate}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-collinsdebate/merlin_176819907_83fee23c-8747-48f8-9ad0-79eb43375920-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Senator Susan Collins of Maine, one of the most vulnerable Republican
incumbents, faced Sara Gideon, her Democratic opponent, on Friday night
for the first time in the opening debate of what has become the most
intense and expensive Senate race in Maine's history.

The debate marked a rare face-to-face exchange in what has been a heated
contest --- so far fought primarily on the television airwaves ---
between Ms. Collins, a four-term senator who is the lone New England
Republican in Congress, and Ms. Gideon, the speaker of Maine's State
House.

It came at a critical time in the contest, which has become the toughest
of Ms. Collins's career, and could well determine whether Republicans
maintain control of the Senate in November. The nonpartisan Cook
Political Report has rated the race a tossup.

Ms. Gideon has received strong backing and ample financial support from
the Senate Democrats' campaign arm and an array of outside political
groups that have targeted Ms. Collins for supporting the confirmation of
Justice Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court and the 2017 Republican tax
law.

Ms. Collins defended her support of Justice Kavanaugh by noting that she
had also backed Supreme Court nominees put forward by President Barack
Obama, and asked Ms. Gideon if she would have supported Chief Justice
John G. Roberts Jr.

``I believe I would have to fully study to be able to answer that
question,'' Ms. Gideon said. Ms. Collins shot back, ``She's ducking the
question.''

But asked by Ms. Gideon if she would support President Trump in
November, Ms. Collins declined to answer, instead saying that she had
not been pressed by Maine voters on that issue while campaigning across
the state.

``I don't think that the people of Maine need my advice on whom to
support for president,'' Ms. Collins said, before listing a number of
issues, including health care and additional stimulus, that she said
voters are concerned about.

``It's not that Mainers are looking for advice about who to vote for,''
Ms. Gideon said in response. ``It's that they want to know who their
senator thinks should be leading us.''

In recent days, Ms. Gideon has also slammed Ms. Collins for her vote to
acquit Mr. Trump of impeachment charges and her response to new
revelations that he intentionally downplayed the pandemic earlier this
year. The senator had
\href{https://www.mainepublic.org/post/collins-king-respond-trumps-misleading-coronavirus-comments}{called
the president's handling of the pandemic ``extremely uneven.''}

``Senator Collins does not stand up to Donald Trump,'' Ms. Gideon said.
``I will fight for those very issues I fought for in the State House,
and I will never forget where I come from, or who I represent.''

When pressed on Friday about the revelations, Ms. Collins said, ``I
believe the president should have been straightforward with the American
people.'' She added, ``The American people can take hard facts.''

Two independents who are also seeking the Senate seat, Lisa Savage and
Max Linn, also sought to differentiate themselves from the two party
candidates.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\hypertarget{the-democratic-challenger-to-a-qanon-candidate-in-georgia-has-dropped-out}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-democratic-challenger-to-a-qanon-candidate-in-georgia-has-dropped-out}{The
Democratic challenger to a QAnon candidate in Georgia has dropped
out.}}{The Democratic challenger to a QAnon candidate in Georgia has dropped out.}}\label{the-democratic-challenger-to-a-qanon-candidate-in-georgia-has-dropped-out}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-astor-11-15-15/11elections-briefing-astor-11-15-15-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Kevin Van Ausdal, the Democratic challenger to Marjorie Taylor Greene, a
QAnon supporter, in Georgia's 14th Congressional District, announced on
Friday that he was ending his campaign for unspecified personal reasons.

``I am heartbroken to announce that for family and personal reasons, I
cannot continue this race for Congress,'' Mr. Van Ausdal
\href{https://twitter.com/KevinVanAusdal/status/1304489108736270337}{said
in a statement}. ``The next steps in my life are taking me away from
Georgia, so I will be disqualified from serving in Congress and will
give the party a chance to put forward a candidate that can carry this
fight to the end.''

Under Georgia law, the state Democratic Party can appoint a replacement
candidate, just as it did after Representative John Lewis died in July.
But time is running short because the state will begin mailing absentee
ballots on Tuesday.

A spokeswoman for the Democratic Party of Georgia said the party was
``calling on the secretary of state to disqualify him from the ballot
and allow the D.P.G. to name a replacement as soon as possible.''

The 14th district, in the northwest corner of Georgia, is one of the
most conservative in the country --- 27 points more Republican than the
national average, according to the Cook Partisan Voter Index --- so Ms.
Greene is virtually guaranteed to win no matter who her opponent is. But
Democrats do not want to allow her to run unopposed.

Ms. Greene, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/us/politics/marjorie-taylor-greene-qanon-georgia-primary.html}{won
the district's Republican primary} last month, is a vocal supporter of
the false QAnon conspiracy theory, which claims that pedophile Satanists
are trying to take down President Trump. She has also made
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/us/marjorie-taylor-greene-georgia.html}{racist,
anti-Semitic and Islamophobic posts} on social media. Last week she
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/09/04/us/ap-us-election-2020-georgia-14th.html}{posted
an image} of herself posing with a rifle next to Representatives Rashida
Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar, all Democrats and women
of color. This week she argued, in contradiction of medical guidance,
that children should not wear masks to protect against the coronavirus.

``Forcing boys to wear masks is emasculating,'' she wrote in a tweet,
which Twitter later removed for violating its terms of service.
``Masculinity isn't toxic nor dangerous. Dem Socialism and shut downs
are.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

Ad Watch

\hypertarget{raphael-warnock-a-georgia-senate-candidate-shares-his-experience-with-racism-in-a-new-ad}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{raphael-warnock-a-georgia-senate-candidate-shares-his-experience-with-racism-in-a-new-ad}{Raphael
Warnock, a Georgia Senate candidate, shares his experience with racism
in a new
ad.}}{Raphael Warnock, a Georgia Senate candidate, shares his experience with racism in a new ad.}}\label{raphael-warnock-a-georgia-senate-candidate-shares-his-experience-with-racism-in-a-new-ad}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-adwatch-11-08-27/11elections-briefing-adwatch-11-08-27-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As calls for racial justice ricochet around the country and more and
more voters, especially white ones, awaken to the systemic racism and
police brutality Black Americans have long faced, some Black candidates
are speaking more openly about their own experiences with racism.

This week, Raphael Warnock, the senior pastor at the storied Ebenezer
Baptist Church in Atlanta and a Democratic Senate candidate in Georgia,
debuted a deeply personal ad in which he speaks candidly about
encountering racism as a child.

\begin{quote}
When I was 12, I was falsely accused of shoplifting in a grocery store.
My experience dealing with structural inequality as a black kid is the
same as many, and in the Senate, I will fight to level the playing field
for all working Georgians. Watch my new ad now:
\href{https://t.co/4PMzmPERxB}{pic.twitter.com/4PMzmPERxB}

--- Reverend Raphael Warnock (@ReverendWarnock)
\href{https://twitter.com/ReverendWarnock/status/1303660020446433282?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
9, 2020}
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{the-message}{%
\subsubsection{The Message}\label{the-message}}

Mr. Warnock,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/us/john-lewis-live-funeral.html}{who
presided over the funeral of Representative John Lewis in July}, is
running for the Senate seat now held by Kelly Loeffler, a Republican, in
a once reliably red state that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/us/politics/georgia-primary-election-senate-race-jon-ossoff.html}{Democrats
now believe is within their reach}. His message --- that he will fight
for those for whom ``the rules were different'' --- is designed as much
for the Black voters in the state who turned out for Stacey Abrams in
her bid for governor in 2018 as white voters for whom racial justice is
newly resonant.

The 30-second ad opens with a camera panning across a grocery store and
a simple dateline: ``Savannah, 1982.''

``1982 --- a 12-year-old is accused of stealing and dragged out a store,
told he looked suspicious because his hands are in his pockets,'' the
narrator says. As the voice speaks, white women appear in the frame
looking suspiciously at the camera.

The ad then cuts to Mr. Warnock, who is in the store. ``I'm Rafael
Warnock, and that boy was me,'' he says, as the viewer jarringly
realizes that the narrator in the beginning was him.

``Back then, I didn't understand how much the system works against those
without power and money, that the rules were different for some of us.
Too often, that's still true today, especially in Washington,'' Mr.
Warnock says, walking through the store. ``I approve this message
because it's time for that to change.''

The ad was created by Magnus Pearson Media, which was also behind
another profoundly personal, and buzzy,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/us/politics/claire-russo-ad.html}{TV
spot earlier this year} that featured a Virginia candidate's
recollection of being drugged and raped.

\hypertarget{fact-check}{%
\subsubsection{Fact Check}\label{fact-check}}

Mr. Warnock, whose website says he grew up in public housing in
Savannah, has personal experience with the criminal justice system: His
older brother, Keith, served 22 years in federal prison for a nonviolent
drug-related offense. On the
\href{https://www.ajc.com/blog/politics/today-have-hope-warnock-brother-released-from-prison/nZK2GyWgbdZHLDCOx3MQ9N/}{day
of his brother's release}, he said: ``I have known this pain personally,
and my family has experienced it over the last 22 years of my brother's
incarceration.''

Mr. Warnock has long been an advocate for racial justice and he has
referenced his own history with racism in the past, but the ad is more
detailed, according to an aide.

\hypertarget{where-its-running}{%
\subsubsection{Where It's Running}\label{where-its-running}}

The ad is airing statewide in Georgia.

\hypertarget{the-takeaway}{%
\subsubsection{The Takeaway}\label{the-takeaway}}

The Black Lives Matter movement has given candidates, and especially
Black candidates, a platform to talk more frankly than ever about
systemic racism, police brutality and racial injustice.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa
Lerer}

VOTING RIGHTS UPDATE

\hypertarget{federal-judges-rejected-democrats-bid-to-expand-mail-in-voting-in-texas}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{federal-judges-rejected-democrats-bid-to-expand-mail-in-voting-in-texas}{Federal
judges rejected Democrats' bid to expand mail-in voting in
Texas.}}{Federal judges rejected Democrats' bid to expand mail-in voting in Texas.}}\label{federal-judges-rejected-democrats-bid-to-expand-mail-in-voting-in-texas}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-texas/merlin_174558999_a9f5a9c3-7812-4983-83cc-247f80aa35cc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A
\href{http://www.ca5.uscourts.gov/opinions/pub/20/20-50407-CV1.pdf}{Texas
circuit court on Thursday rejected a challenge} brought by the state
Democratic Party to expand access to voting by mail, allowing the state
to maintain strict eligibility requirements.

Despite health risks posed by the coronavirus, a three-judge panel of
the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals sided with the Republican leaders in
the state, including Gov. Greg Abbott, to keep voting by mail largely
limited to older voters

In Texas, any voter 65 or older automatically qualifies for a mail-in
ballot. Younger voters are eligible only if they demonstrate that they
will be out of the state during the election period, have a disability
or illness that makes voting a risk to their health or are serving a
prison sentence.

The state Democratic Party argued that such restrictions violated voter
protections guaranteed in the 26th Amendment. The judges did not find
that argument persuasive, overturning a lower-court ruling requiring
no-excuse mail-in voting in Texas. The circuit court judges held that to
be unconstitutional, a law would have to create a new barrier to voting.

``Conferring a privilege on one category of voters does not alone
violate the 26th Amendment,'' the panel wrote.

The case is on track to head to the Supreme Court, though it remains
unclear if it will be decided before Oct. 23 --- the state deadline for
requesting a mail-in ballot.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\hypertarget{barr-lauds-the-police-and-condemns-their-critics-as-he-honors-a-slain-officer}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{barr-lauds-the-police-and-condemns-their-critics-as-he-honors-a-slain-officer}{Barr
lauds the police and condemns their critics as he honors a slain
officer.}}{Barr lauds the police and condemns their critics as he honors a slain officer.}}\label{barr-lauds-the-police-and-condemns-their-critics-as-he-honors-a-slain-officer}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-barr/merlin_175334868_c2e51cda-5a07-4e4f-91eb-ce9de0682911-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Attorney General William P. Barr condemned critics of the police on
Friday as ``vocal, powerful forces'' who tolerate and glorify ``acts of
resistance and physical violence against police.''

His remarks came in a eulogy he delivered at a memorial service for a
Cleveland police detective who was
\href{https://www.cleveland.com/metro/2020/09/teen-charged-in-fatal-shooting-of-cleveland-police-officer-informant.html}{killed
last week} during an undercover drug operation.

President Trump and Mr. Barr have been outspoken supporters of law
enforcement, and Mr. Trump has made his backing of the police a key part
of his re-election campaign, touting officers' response to unrest at and
around protests nationwide in recent months. On a day when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html}{the
candidates for president and vice president put hostilities on hold} to
mark the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Barr's remarks were a
reminder of one of the nation's most rancorous political divides.

The detective, James Skernivitz, a 20-year police veteran, was assigned
to
\href{https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-william-p-barr-announces-launch-operation-legend?utm_medium=email\&utm_source=govdelivery}{Operation
Legend}, a Justice Department initiative that helps law enforcement in
big cities combat violent crime. Two teenagers have been charged in his
killing.

As the nation faces a reckoning over policing and police abuses, critics
have called for money to diverted from the police to social services and
chiefs have struggled to overhaul their departments under heightened
scrutiny. Mr. Barr said the politicized atmosphere had made it
impossible to acknowledge that policing is an important job.

``People have come to their senses today, and now people go out of their
way to thank soldiers for their service,'' he said, repeating a
comparison between Vietnam veterans and police that he has made in past
speeches.

``When our police leave the precinct each day to protect the safety of
the community, there are no crowds cheering them, and they don't get
their ticker tape when they return home safe.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-benner}{Katie
Benner}

\hypertarget{rhode-island-joins-the-ranks-of-states-making-it-easier-for-people-to-vote-by-mail}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{rhode-island-joins-the-ranks-of-states-making-it-easier-for-people-to-vote-by-mail}{Rhode
Island joins the ranks of states making it easier for people to vote by
mail.}}{Rhode Island joins the ranks of states making it easier for people to vote by mail.}}\label{rhode-island-joins-the-ranks-of-states-making-it-easier-for-people-to-vote-by-mail}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11elections-briefing-rhodeisland/merlin_173115636_58d21ca1-a335-4f05-ab02-b01834318a5d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Rhode Island became the latest state to decide to send applications for
mail-in ballots to all active registered voters, with its secretary of
state, Nellie M. Gorbea, announcing Friday that the state would also
enlist the help of its National Guard to process applications.

``It's going to ensure that voters don't have to choose between their
health and their constitutional right to vote,'' Ms. Gorbea
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/RISecState/videos/315115236424209}{said
at a news conference}.

The state is the latest to help voters avoid crowded polling sites on
Election Day, even as President Trump has regularly assailed voting by
mail and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{made
false claims that it is rife with fraud}, and mail delays this summer
amid cost-saving measures at the Postal Service led to fears that some
ballots might not be delivered in time to be counted.

Some states,
\href{https://www.gov.ca.gov/2020/05/08/governor-newsom-issues-executive-order-to-protect-public-health-by-mailing-every-registered-voter-a-ballot-ahead-of-the-november-general-election/}{including
California}, have gone further, and decided to send actual mail-in
ballots to all registered voters. In Nevada, another state where all
active registered voters will be sent ballots, the secretary of state,
Barbara Cegavske, a Republican, issued a
\href{https://www.nvsos.gov/sos/home/showdocument?id=8842}{Facts vs.
Myths} page to counter misinformation about the election.

The National Conference of State Legislatures
\href{https://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/absentee-and-mail-voting-policies-in-effect-for-the-2020-election.aspx}{has
been tracking each state's vote-by-mail policies} --- both permanent
ones and temporary changes put in place this year to accommodate voters
during the pandemic.

Ms. Gorbea, a Democrat, said that Rhode Island voters would also be able
to place their mail-in ballots in secure drop boxes, ``for those of you
who are a little bit skittish about the Postal Service.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{russian-intelligence-hackers-are-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warned}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{russian-intelligence-hackers-are-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warned}{Russian
intelligence hackers are targeting both parties, Microsoft
warned.}}{Russian intelligence hackers are targeting both parties, Microsoft warned.}}\label{russian-intelligence-hackers-are-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warned}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-election-hacking/merlin_155893821_c137eced-f649-498f-9c16-6f7eb21be1b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Russian military intelligence unit that attacked the Democratic
National Committee four years ago is back with more stealthy hacks aimed
at campaign staff, consultants and think tanks associated with both
Democrats and Republicans.

That warning was issued on Thursday by Microsoft in an assessment far
more detailed than any made public by American intelligence agencies.

The findings came the day after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/homeland-security-russia-trump.html}{a
government whistle-blower claimed} that officials at the White House and
the Department of Homeland Security suppressed intelligence concerning
Russia's continuing interference because it ``made the president look
bad,'' and instructed government analysts to focus instead on
interference by China and Iran.

Microsoft did find that Chinese and Iranian hackers have been active ---
but often not in the way that President Trump and his aides have
suggested.

Federal officials insisted that the Microsoft report was consistent with
their own warnings, which said Russia, China and Iran sought to gather
information from the campaigns, and perhaps try to influence the
outcome. But the most recent assessment by the director of national
intelligence, last month, also said China wanted Joseph R. Biden Jr. to
win.

Microsoft's assessment may have complicated that finding because it
found that Chinese hackers focused their attacks on the private email
accounts of Mr. Biden's campaign staff members, along with a range of
prominent people in academia and the national security establishment.

Notably, only one Chinese target detected by Microsoft was affiliated
with Mr. Trump: a former official whom Microsoft declined to name.

Firms like Microsoft and Google, because they sit atop global networks,
have a front-seat view of suspicious activity, and increasing motivation
to make it public to warn their customers. The result, inevitably, is a
tumble of reports that government intelligence officials are forced to
assess alongside their own findings.

``We are a large target, so it is not surprising to see malicious
activity directed at the campaign or our staff,'' said Thea McDonald,
the deputy national press secretary for the Trump campaign. ``We work
closely with our partners, Microsoft and others, to mitigate these
threats.''

The Biden campaign said it was ``aware of reports from Microsoft that a
foreign actor has made unsuccessful attempts to access the noncampaign
email accounts of individuals affiliated with the campaign,'' and was
preparing for the onslaught of attacks in the coming weeks.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{David E.
Sanger} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicole-perlroth}{Nicole
Perlroth}

\hypertarget{democrats-gained-these-voters-in-2018-and-biden-needs-to-keep-them-now}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{democrats-gained-these-voters-in-2018-and-biden-needs-to-keep-them-now}{Democrats
gained these voters in 2018, and Biden needs to keep them
now.}}{Democrats gained these voters in 2018, and Biden needs to keep them now.}}\label{democrats-gained-these-voters-in-2018-and-biden-needs-to-keep-them-now}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/us/politics/11pollwatch-newsletter/merlin_169981998_8538b3a3-62d9-4cf5-bf8d-a9f390ea3dca-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Despite his strong position in the presidential race, support for Joseph
R. Biden Jr.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/joe-biden-polling-trump.html}{appears
to be lagging} among some key voter groups that broke for the Democrats
in the 2018 midterm elections, according to a new study from the Pew
Research Center.

Two years ago, a flood of anti-Trump sentiment helped flip the House of
Representatives blue, with Democratic candidates winning more votes than
Republicans by nearly 10 percentage points nationwide.

Because the 2018 election was largely seen as a referendum on President
Trump, Democratic strategists are looking to carry those gains forward.
Indeed, national and swing-state polls continue to show Mr. Biden with a
steady lead --- particularly in the suburban areas where Democrats made
some of their biggest gains in the midterms.

But polling also suggests that Mr. Biden may not be able to count on the
same level of support that Democratic candidates received in 2018. Some
of the groups that swung hardest in Democrats' direction in 2016 have
been slow to warm to Mr. Biden, including Latinos and young voters.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/giovanni-russonello}{Giovanni
Russonello}

\hypertarget{the-question-in-washington-why-would-trump-talk-to-bob-woodward-18-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-question-in-washington-why-would-trump-talk-to-bob-woodward-18-times}{The
question in Washington: Why would Trump talk to Bob Woodward 18
times?}}{The question in Washington: Why would Trump talk to Bob Woodward 18 times?}}\label{the-question-in-washington-why-would-trump-talk-to-bob-woodward-18-times}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10dc-woodward/merlin_176822568_dd1a333d-80cf-4229-9870-2994b9d94d32-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Presidents over the decades thought they could manage Bob Woodward and
many, as Karl Rove put it this week, came to regret it. Then came Donald
J. Trump, who being Donald J. Trump thought so much of his powers of
persuasion that he opened up to Mr. Woodward not once or twice but an
astonishing 18 times.

So President Trump may have 18 times as many reasons for regret, as the
latest blockbuster from Mr. Woodward reveals a president who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/woodward-trump-book-virus.html}{privately
understood how deadly the coronavirus really was} even as he was telling
the public the opposite. With an election 53 days away, perhaps no other
president who talked with Mr. Woodward did as much to undermine himself.

The question consuming Washington this week: Why did he talk in the
first place? Why give so much access to a journalist who made his
reputation taking down a president during Watergate?

The answer: because he is Donald Trump. He has infinite faith in his
ability to spin his own story. He is forever seeking approval and
validation from celebrity and establishment figures like Mr. Woodward.
And as much as he likes to excoriate the ``fake news,'' he is drawn
irresistibly to the spotlight.

``He can't help himself,'' said Timothy L. O'Brien, who witnessed Mr.
Trump's craving at close range while writing his own book on Mr. Trump
during his business days. ``He's profoundly addicted to public attention
and the media is his vehicle for making sure he gets it. His view is he
can live with negative coverage and positive coverage. He can't live
with no coverage. So he constantly puts himself in the cross hairs.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter
Baker}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 12, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump has failed to erase Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s lead
    across a set of key swing states,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/12/us/politics/biden-trump-poll-wisconsin-minnesota.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{according
    to a poll}~conducted by The Times and Siena College.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{paths-to-270}{%
  \subsection{Paths to 270}\label{paths-to-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-deadlines}{%
  \subsection{Voting Deadlines}\label{voting-deadlines}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Early voting for the presidential election starts in September~in
    some states. Take a look at
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{key
    dates}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{where
    you
    liv}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{e}.
    If you're voting by
    mail,~\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{it's
    risky to procrastinate}.
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
