Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Outrage Grows Over Boris
Johnson Aide's 260-Mile Trip During Lockdown

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gjddjE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb90-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb91-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb92-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb93-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb94-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=5404bb95-e395-11ea-9f52-e335c4ed056e}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{outrage-grows-over-boris-johnson-aides-260-mile-trip-during-lockdown}{%
\section{Outrage Grows Over Boris Johnson Aide's 260-Mile Trip During
Lockdown}\label{outrage-grows-over-boris-johnson-aides-260-mile-trip-during-lockdown}}

Dominic Cummings, the British prime minister's top adviser, said he
behaved ``reasonably and legally'' in driving for child care needs while
coming down with the coronavirus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/24/world/24UK-CUMMINGS/merlin_172764588_52c8e1c8-6f37-4db6-9a0a-b8aa4c0d63b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/22/reader-center/author-mark-landler/author-mark-landler-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephen-castle}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-stephen-castle/author-stephen-castle-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{Mark
Landler} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephen-castle}{Stephen
Castle}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a torrent of calls on
Saturday to dismiss his most influential adviser, Dominic Cummings,
after reports that Mr. Cummings had visited relatives in northern
England while he was ill with the coronavirus --- a violation of
Britain's lockdown rules.

Mr. Johnson appeared determined to stand by Mr. Cummings, an enigmatic
figure who helped mastermind his election victory last year and the
Brexit campaign that resulted in Britain's departure from the European
Union.

But the reports that Mr. Cummings had driven to his parents' house in
Durham in April when the government was urging people to stay home ---
particularly those with symptoms of the virus --- set off a political
tempest, with critics accusing him of flouting the rules that apply to
everybody else.

``The British people do not expect there to be one rule for them and
another rule for Dominic Cummings,'' said a spokesman for the opposition
Labour Party, who added that he had ``breached the lockdown rules.''

Leaders of two other opposition parties, the Liberal Democrats and
Scottish National Party, demanded that he resign or be fired.

Confronted by reporters outside his home on Saturday, Mr. Cummings said,
``I behaved reasonably and legally.'' Asked whether his decision had
been ``a good look,'' he replied: ``Who cares about good looks? It's a
question of doing the right thing. It is not about what you guys
think.''

The furious reactions to his trip attested to the polarizing role Mr.
Cummings has played in British politics since before the 2016 Brexit
referendum. He has accumulated a long list of enemies, including some in
the Conservative Party, like Iain Duncan Smith, a former party leader,
whom he has ridiculed or sidelined.

But it also showed Mr. Johnson's deep reliance on Mr. Cummings. The
prime minister dug in his heels on Saturday, releasing a statement,
through a spokesman, that defended Mr. Cummings and his wife for making
the 260-mile drive to Durham. It said they had been trying to line up
care for their young child after he contracted the virus and expected he
would fall ill.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/23/world/23UK-CUMMINGS02/merlin_172377804_dfc3afa5-25ca-4934-acdb-449c44a60a3e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The adviser went to a house ``near to but separate from his extended
family,'' the statement said, after his sister and nieces had offered to
help.

``His actions were in line with coronavirus guidelines,'' the statement
said.

If so, however, Mr. Cummings seemed eager not to disclose the trip. His
wife, the journalist Mary Wakefield, wrote an account of her husband's
illness
\href{https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/getting-coronavirus-does-not-bring-clarity}{in
The Spectator} that made no mention of their drive and suggested he had
been bedridden for 10 days at home with a ``high fever and spasms that
made the muscles lump and twitch in his legs.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T09:57:24.778Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Cummings
\href{https://www.spectator.co.uk/article/spectator-writers-in-lockdown-by-the-people-stuck-with-them}{himself
described} being shut in with Ms. Wakefield, who also had symptoms, for
more than two weeks, beginning at the end of March, when he contracted
the virus soon after Mr. Johnson.

Violations of the lockdown by prominent figures have become a recurring
theme in Britain, with the penalties falling harder on private citizens
and scientific experts than on government officials.

Image

Police officers and Londoners keeping apart this month.Credit...Mary
Turner for The New York Times

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/world/coronavirus-world-coverage.html}{Neil
Ferguson}, an epidemiologist and adviser to the government, stepped down
from a key scientific panel after acknowledging he had invited a woman
with whom he was reported to be romantically involved into his apartment
during the lockdown. Scotland's chief medical officer, Catherine
Calderwood, resigned in April after reports she had traveled twice to a
vacation home.

But Robert Jenrick, the secretary for housing, communities and local
government, held on to his job after admitting he had driven an hour
outside London to visit his parents. And Stephen Kinnock, a prominent
Labour member of Parliament, brushed aside criticism from the police
after he visited his father, Neil Kinnock, for his birthday in March.

Though an adviser and not an elected politician, Mr. Cummings has twice
been critical to Mr. Johnson's political success. Not only is he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/08/world/europe/dominic-cummings-brexit-boris-johnson.html}{an
accomplished campaigner}, the man behind the pro-Brexit slogan ``take
back control,'' but he also inspired Mr. Johnson's agenda to spread
prosperity to neglected areas of the country, including the north.

His public profile rose when he was portrayed by the actor Benedict
Cumberbatch in a drama about the Brexit campaign, as a sort of tortured
genius determined to destroy the political elite. Since the election, he
has reveled in his image as an eccentric, disheveled iconoclast, intent
on reinventing government --- Downing Street's answer to Stephen K.
Bannon, President Trump's former strategist.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Cummings
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/07/world/europe/boris-johnson-dominic-cummings-civil-service.html}{put
out a call for ``weirdos and misfits''} to join him in the government
(one of those appointed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/17/world/europe/boris-johnson-andrew-sabisky-dominic-cummings.html}{later
resigned}). He mocked cabinet ministers, appearing to
\href{https://www.thesun.co.uk/news/10944057/dominic-cummings-cabinet-pj-masks/}{suggest
that children's cartoon characters might do a better job}. And he
clashed with grandees of the Conservative Party, once describing a
former Brexit secretary, David Davis, as ``thick as mince,'' ``lazy as a
toad'' and ``vain as Narcissus.''

Image

Pro-European campaigners with a portrait of Mr. Cummings, a key figure
in the Brexit campaign, outside the Parliament in London in
September.~Credit...Andrew Testa for The New York Times

Cabinet ministers and other Conservative lawmakers showed support for
Mr. Cummings on Saturday, including the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab;
the chancellor of the Exchequer, Rishi Sunak; and the health secretary,
Matt Hancock.

``I know how ill coronavirus makes you,''
\href{https://twitter.com/MattHancock/status/1264162359733555202}{Mr.
Hancock tweeted.} ``It was entirely right for Dom Cummings to find
childcare for his toddler, when both he and his wife were getting ill.''

Others stayed silent, however, perhaps waiting to see whether Mr.
Cummings could ride out the storm.

At a news briefing on Saturday afternoon that was dominated by the
issue, Grant Shapps, the transport secretary, said Mr. Cummings had the
``full support'' of the prime minister. But the Labour Party said that
Downing Street's explanations ``raised more questions than they answer''
and called for an inquiry into Mr. Cummings's actions.

While the Labour Party demanded answers, it stopped short of demanding
his resignation. That appeared to reflect a tactical judgment by the
party leader, Keir Starmer, that the episode would do more damage to the
government, which is already on the defensive for its handling of the
virus, if it were dragged out over several days.

And criticism flowed not just from opposition politicians.

Julia Hartley-Brewer, a broadcaster and journalist who generally leans
to the right politically, described how she had been separated from her
77-year-old mother, who lives on her own and suffered a heart attack in
December.

``So excuse me if I am beyond bloody incandescent at what Dominic
Cummings did,''
\href{https://twitter.com/JuliaHB1/status/1263939337030438917}{she wrote
in a tweet that used another expletive.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
