Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}U.S. Coronavirus Cases Soar as 18
States Set Single-Day Records This Week

\url{https://nyti.ms/2BzKWpO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/23/us/coronavirus-hotspots-countries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{How
  the U.S. Compares}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-drugs-treatments.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Possible
  Treatments}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/24/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{us-coronavirus-cases-soar-as-18-states-set-single-day-records-this-week}{%
\section{U.S. Coronavirus Cases Soar as 18 States Set Single-Day Records
This
Week}\label{us-coronavirus-cases-soar-as-18-states-set-single-day-records-this-week}}

Friday was the fourth day running that the United States reported over
1,100 deaths. New research sheds light on male vulnerability to severe
Covid-19.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 25, 2020Updated July 26, 2020, 4:11 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3450fc78}{Eighteen states set daily case
  records in the past week, and 40 have had 14-day increases in cases
  per capita.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-45ee364f}{North Korea declares `maximum'
  emergency after discovering what it says might be its first case.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3ab3bbbc}{In Illinois, the `Million Unmasked
  March' proceeds with about 150 people.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-66879706}{New research suggests genetic links
  to male vulnerability to Covid-19.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-519579a3}{The virus is exacting a particularly
  high toll on the Amazon.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-15fbfa41}{California, after an alarming
  report, will start requiring nursing home inspectors to be tested.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1ce63b35}{The pandemic has caused another
  unexpected problem: P.P.E. litter.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/25/world/25virus-briefing-la/merlin_174838209_577f63ce-fa5d-4c2a-94b3-142d8c360b5a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{eighteen-states-set-daily-case-records-in-the-past-week-and-40-have-had-14-day-increases-in-cases-per-capita}{%
\subsection{Eighteen states set daily case records in the past week, and
40 have had 14-day increases in cases per
capita.}\label{eighteen-states-set-daily-case-records-in-the-past-week-and-40-have-had-14-day-increases-in-cases-per-capita}}

California. South Carolina. North Dakota. Kentucky. Hawaii. Those are
among the 18 states that set single-day case records in the last week,
putting the country on track to breaking a national single-day record
for new coronavirus cases set less than two weeks ago.

More than 73,500 cases were reported on Friday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}, approaching the country's record of
75,697 cases, set on July 16. Since June 24, the seven-day average has
more than doubled, to more than 66,100 on Friday from 31,402.

The other states with rapidly growing caseloads are Alabama, Alaska,
Indiana, Kansas, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, New Mexico,
North Carolina, Oklahoma, Utah and West Virginia. A 19th state,
Louisiana, also set a record, but because it reported a backlog of cases
on Monday. A total of 40 states have seen 14-day increases in cases per
capita.

As the number of cases has continued to climb, so has the number of
hospitalizations, which dipped briefly below 28,000 in mid-June but is
now skirting its own April record. Deaths are also rising: Friday was
the fourth consecutive day with more than 1,100 reported U.S. deaths,
which are trending upward in 30 states. On Saturday, South Carolina
announced 80 new deaths, a single-day record.

On Friday, the number of people known to be hospitalized with the
coronavirus in the country was 59,670, according to
\href{https://covidtracking.com/data/us-daily}{the Covid Tracking
Project}, a few hundred short of the record of 59,940 reported by the
database on April 15.

A surge in Starr County, a rural, impoverished area in South Texas, near
the border with Mexico, offers a grim example of the type of hospital
crisis looming. The county's infection rate of about 2,350 per 100,000
people is far higher than in more populous parts of Texas, including
Houston. The county's single hospital cannot handle the crush of Covid
patients, and ethics committees have been formed to help determine which
patients should be treated and which should be sent home to die.

Pentagon officials have dispatched Army and Navy personnel to the Starr
County hospital and other medical centers in border cities to provide
support, and state and federal officials have sent morgue trailers,
ventilators, testing teams and surgical masks to the Rio Grande Valley.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus~›}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

P.R.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Miss.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ind.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Md.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ky.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Wyo.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Va.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.H.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots~›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/5246b838fe5fcc2a52252306ae294f42673ba8ca/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide~›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/5246b838fe5fcc2a52252306ae294f42673ba8ca/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{north-korea-declares-maximum-emergency-after-discovering-what-it-says-might-be-its-first-case}{%
\subsection{North Korea declares `maximum' emergency after discovering
what it says might be its first
case.}\label{north-korea-declares-maximum-emergency-after-discovering-what-it-says-might-be-its-first-case}}

Image

Kim Jong-un, North Korea's leader, in a photo released by the official
Korean Central News Agency that it said had been taken on
Saturday.Credit...North Korean Central News Agency, via Reuters

North Korea said on Sunday that it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus-kim-jong-un.html}{locked
down a city} near its border with South Korea and declared a ``maximum''
national emergency after finding what its leader, Kim Jong-un, said
could be the country's first case of Covid-19 there.

It issued the high alert after a North Korean who had defected to South
Korea three years ago but secretly crossed back into the North's Kaesong
City last Sunday was ``suspected to have been infected with the vicious
virus,'' the North's official Korean Central News Agency said on Sunday.

Until now North Korea, one of the world's most isolated countries, has
repeatedly said that it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html}{no
case} of Covid-19, although outside experts questioned the claim.

North Korea has taken some of the most drastic actions of any country
against the virus, and it did so sooner than most other nations.

It sealed its borders in late January, shutting off business with
neighboring China, which accounts for nine-tenths of its external trade.
It clamped down on the smugglers who keep its thriving
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/30/world/asia/north-korea-economy-marketplace.html}{unofficial
markets} functioning. It quarantined all diplomats in Pyongyang for a
month.

​The government's ability to control the movement of people​ also
bolsters its disease-control efforts.

A Covid-19 outbreak could seriously test North Korea's underequipped
public health system and its
economy,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/world/asia/north-korea-sanctions-coronavirus.html}{already
struggling under international sanctions.} International relief agencies
have been providing test kits and other assistance to help the country
fight any potential spread of Covid-19.

North Korea did not reveal the identity of the North Korean runaway who
it said had returned home with the possible virus infection from South
Korea. The South Korean government did not immediately react to the
North Korean claim.

\hypertarget{in-illinois-the-million-unmasked-march-proceeds-with-about-150-people}{%
\subsection{In Illinois, the `Million Unmasked March' proceeds with
about 150
people.}\label{in-illinois-the-million-unmasked-march-proceeds-with-about-150-people}}

Image

A group in Springfield, Ill., on Saturday demonstrating against
guidelines for masks in schools.Credit...Justin L. Fowler/The State
Journal-Register, via Associated Press

Even as the virus continues to surge across the United States, pockets
of resistance to public health measures continue to appear in parts of
the country.

On Saturday, about 150 demonstrators marched outside the state capitol
in Springfield, Ill., in opposition to Illinois State Board of Education
\href{https://www.isbe.net/Documents/FAQ-Part-3-Transition-Guidance.pdf}{guidance}
that says face coverings will be required in schools this fall,
according to Michael Rebresh, an organizer.

The protest was billed as the ``Million Unmasked March,'' but Mr.
Rebresh said he never expected it to draw that many people.

``Did we have the turnout we wanted? No, we didn't,'' Mr. Rebresh said.
``But the folks who did turn out showed up with great spirit.''

In Texas on Saturday, some bar owners planned to open in defiance of
Gov. Greg Abbott's
\href{https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-takes-executive-action-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19}{order}on
June 26 that required bars to close. More than 1,000 bars have signed up
to participate in the protest, called Freedom Fest, according to Chris
Polone, an owner of the Rail Club, a music venue in Fort Worth, and an
organizer of the event.

Mr. Polone said he was asking bars that participate to operate at 25
percent capacity, take temperatures at the door, mandate masks and seat
people at tables of four. He said it was unfair that Texas had closed
bars while allowing restaurants to remain open for dine-in service, at
reduced capacity.

``We don't want to represent a bunch of idiots in this,'' he said.
``We're trying to show we can open and act responsibly.''

A spokesman for Mr. Abbott did not immediately respond to an email.

The protests on Saturday were a faint echo of the far larger
demonstrations held in several states in the spring, when thousands of
protesters
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/us/coronavirus-rules-protests.html}{urged
governors} to relax the rules on commerce, work and daily life that
health officials said were necessary to save lives.

\hypertarget{new-research-suggests-genetic-links-to-male-vulnerability-to-covid-19}{%
\subsection{New research suggests genetic links to male vulnerability to
Covid-19.}\label{new-research-suggests-genetic-links-to-male-vulnerability-to-covid-19}}

Image

An electron microscope scan of the coronavirus.Credit...National
Institutes of Health

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

A preliminary report on four Covid-19 patients
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2768926}{published
in the medical journal JAMA} offers intriguing clues about why some
healthy young men become severely ill from the infection, and why men in
general are more prone than women to serious effects of the disease.

Very rare genetic defects that weaken the immune system may have played
havoc in the four patients --- two sets of brothers ages 21 to 32 from
unrelated families in the Netherlands. All, previously in good health,
were admitted to intensive care units between March 23 and April 25.
One, age 29, died.

Genetic analyses of the patients and their families identified flaws in
a gene that enables cells to make molecules called interferons, which
stir the immune system to fight off viruses. Without this line of
defense, the researchers speculated, the patients struggled to fight the
infection.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-07-25T09:43:39.358Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4331c0b7}{The
  U.S. nears a single-day record as infections show no sign of slowing.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-625c8263}{Pelosi
  again rules out a short extension of \$600 unemployment benefits,
  pushing for broader aid.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6ec043c9}{A
  new C.D.C. statement on schools calls for reopening and downplays the
  potential health risks.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/24/business/stock-market-updates-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

These genetic defects they were found to have are too rare to account
for many other inexplicably severe cases of Covid-19, the researchers
said, but the findings point to the possibility that other genetic
variations may also influence susceptibility.

The findings also offer hints about why men in general may be more
vulnerable than women to severe cases of Covid-19.

The gene that was flawed in the four young men in the study is located
on the X chromosome. Men have one copy of that chromosome, while women
have two --- and if one X in a woman carries the gene defect, her other
X may have a normal form of the gene, enabling the creation of enough
interferons to stay healthy.

Having two copies of the normal gene --- as most women do --- may also
give them an advantage over men.

\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2768925}{An
editorial accompanying the report} said additional studies like this one
could help explain how the disease develops, and enable researchers to
find better treatments.

\hypertarget{the-virus-is-exacting-a-particularly-high-toll-on-the-amazon}{%
\subsection{The virus is exacting a particularly high toll on the
Amazon.}\label{the-virus-is-exacting-a-particularly-high-toll-on-the-amazon}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/reader-center/amazon-poster-vid/amazon-poster-vid-threeByTwoMediumAt2X.jpg}

The Amazon River is South America's essential life source, the central
artery in a vast network of tributaries that sustains some 30 million
people across eight countries, moving supplies, people and industry deep
into forested regions often untouched by road.

But once again, in a painful echo of history, it is also bringing
disease.

The pandemic has overwhelmed Brazil, with more than two million
infections and more than 84,000 deaths, an outbreak second only to the
United States in severity. The six Brazilian cities with the highest
coronavirus exposure are
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.30.20117531v1}{all
on the Amazon River,} according to an expansive new study from Brazilian
researchers that measured antibodies in the population.

A Times photographer traveled the river for weeks, documenting how the
virus has spread so quickly and thoroughly along the river that in
remote fishing and farming communities like Tefé, people have been as
likely to get the virus as in New York City, home to one of the world's
worst outbreaks.

``It was all very fast,'' said Isabel Delgado, 34, whose father,
Felicindo, died of the virus shortly after falling ill in the small city
of Coari.

In the past four months, as the epidemic traveled from the biggest city
in the Brazilian Amazon, Manaus, with its high-rises and factories, to
tiny, seemingly isolated villages deep in the interior, the fragile
health care system has buckled under the onslaught.

Cities and towns along the river have some of the highest deaths per
capita in the country --- often several times the national average.

The virus is exacting an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/world/americas/coronavirus-brazil-indigenous.html?smid=tw-share}{especially
high toll} on Indigenous people, in a parallel to the past. Since the
1500s, waves of explorers have traveled the river, seeking gold, land
and converts --- and later, rubber, a resource that helped fuel the
Industrial Revolution. But with them, these outsiders brought violence
and diseases like smallpox and measles, killing millions and wiping out
entire communities.

``This is a place that has generated so much wealth for others,'' said
Charles C. Mann, a journalist who has written extensively on the history
of the Americas, ``and look at what's happening to it.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/25/world/americas/coronavirus-brazil-amazon.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/world/virus-amazon2/virus-amazon2-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-unleashed-along-the-amazon-river}{%
\subsection{The Coronavirus Unleashed Along the Amazon
River}\label{the-coronavirus-unleashed-along-the-amazon-river}}

As the pandemic assails Brazil, the virus is taking an exceptionally
high toll on the Amazon region.

\hypertarget{california-after-an-alarming-report-will-start-requiring-nursing-home-inspectors-to-be-tested}{%
\subsection{California, after an alarming report, will start requiring
nursing home inspectors to be
tested.}\label{california-after-an-alarming-report-will-start-requiring-nursing-home-inspectors-to-be-tested}}

Image

Gateway Care and Rehabilitation nursing home in Hayward,
Calif.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times

Gov. Gavin Newsom of California said Friday that a robust testing
regimen would begin for state nursing home surveyors, after a
\href{https://www.latimes.com/california/story/2020-07-24/california-failure-covid-19-test-nursing-home-inspectors}{Los
Angeles Times investigation} revealed that they were not required to be
tested for the coronavirus before inspecting facilities --- meaning they
could have been introducing infections into settings that house some of
the most vulnerable populations.

More than 40 percent of U.S. deaths have been connected to such
facilities, according to a New York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{database}.
In California, the percentage is even higher, accounting for at least 45
percent of deaths.

California will now require nursing home inspectors to meet the same
state criteria required of nursing home employees, Mr. Newsom said at a
news conference. ``We're raising our standards,'' he said. Nursing homes
in California
\href{https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/LCP/Pages/AFL-20-53.aspx}{are
required} to test 25 percent of their staff every seven days.

Dr. Michael Wasserman, the medical director of the Eisenberg Village
nursing home in Reseda and president of the California Association of
Long Term Care Medicine, said that he had not known that inspectors
weren't required to be tested until he learned of the Los Angeles Times
investigation.

``When I heard that state surveyors were not being tested, I was
shocked,'' Dr. Wasserman said.

He contacted the California Department of Public Health to inquire why
the requirement had not already been in place, and said an official
responded that while most staff members did get tested, the department
could not legally mandate it without legislation.

``How in the world can you be telling nursing homes that they need to be
testing all of their staff and you're not testing your inspectors?'' Dr.
Wasserman said in an interview.

He said that he also believes that the number of deaths related to care
facilities could be far higher than the current known level of 59,000.
In conversations with nursing homes around the country, he said, he had
learned of many more nursing home deaths --- especially in March and
April --- from what was most likely the virus, though those patients
were never tested or formally diagnosed.

\hypertarget{the-pandemic-has-caused-another-unexpected-problem-ppe-litter}{%
\subsection{The pandemic has caused another unexpected problem: P.P.E.
litter.}\label{the-pandemic-has-caused-another-unexpected-problem-ppe-litter}}

Image

Gary Stokes of OceansAsia held masks found on a beach near Hong Kong in
May. He says masks have been washing up in increasing
quantities.Credit...Anthony Wallace/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

As antiseptic wipes, disposable masks and plastic gloves have become
ubiquitous during the pandemic, bits of this personal protective
equipment have been turning up in startling places.

Scientists and environmentalists worldwide have reported increasing
volumes of discarded P.P.E. items everywhere from oceans to dense urban
areas.

``It's quite alarming where these are ending up,'' said Gary Stokes, a
founder of OceansAsia, a marine conservation group. ``It's not just the
beaches. We're getting them out in nature, but also downtown; you see
them on the streets, in the gutter, on public transport.''

According to public health officials, while discarded P.P.E. may be
unseemly and have lasting effects on ecosystems, in particular oceans,
it is unlikely to increase transmission. Under scientists' current
understanding, the coronavirus is unable to survive for long on a porous
surface like a mask, especially if exposed to sunlight.

Global roundup

\hypertarget{brazils-president-a-leading-virus-skeptic-says-he-is-no-longer-infected}{%
\subsection{Brazil's president, a leading virus skeptic, says he is no
longer
infected.}\label{brazils-president-a-leading-virus-skeptic-says-he-is-no-longer-infected}}

Image

Shortly after announcing his negative test result on Saturday, President
Jair Bolsonaro went for a motorcycle ride.Credit...Adriano
Machado/Reuters

President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil said Saturday that he had been cured
of Covid-19 after apparently having only mild symptoms from a disease he
has repeatedly played down while it has killed more than 85,000 people
in his country.

``GOOD MORNING EVERYONE,'' Mr. Bolsonaro, 65,
\href{https://twitter.com/jairbolsonaro/status/1286994557440348160?s=20}{posted
in a message on Twitter} Saturday morning, with the news that his latest
coronavirus test had come back negative.

The message included a photo of the president in which he appears to be
smiling and giving a thumbs up while brandishing a box of
hydroxychloroquine pills, the anti-malaria medicine. Mr. Bolsonaro has
hailed the drug as a miracle cure, despite a growing scientific
consensus that it is not effective to treat Covid-19, the disease caused
by the coronavirus.

There have been more than 2.3 million known infections in Brazil, which
ranks second in the world, behind the United States, in total reported
cases,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{according
to a New York Times database}.

Mr. Bolsonaro said he experienced body aches and a fever in the days
before he first
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-coronavirus.html}{tested
positive for the virus on July 7}. Since then, he has projected an image
of vitality as he roamed the grounds of the presidential residence in
Brasília, at times playing with large birds that live on the grounds.

Shortly after announcing the negative test result, Mr. Bolsonaro left
the palace riding a motorcycle, accompanied by security aides.

In other news from around the globe:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{South Korea} reported 58 new infections on Sunday, including
  46 from abroad, in a sharp drop from a day earlier. On Saturday, the
  country had reported 113 new infections, its highest daily total since
  March. Those cases included 36 South Korean construction workers who
  had returned from Iraq, and 32 Russian sailors from a fishing vessel
  docked for repair.
\item
  Also in \textbf{South Korea}, the office of President Moon Jae-in said
  on Sunday that he had received a letter from Bill Gates, the Microsoft
  co-founder turned philanthropist, expressing hope for greater
  cooperation between South Korea and his foundation in efforts to fight
  the virus. In the July 20 letter, Mr. Gates praised the country's
  pandemic response and said that if the South Korean company SK
  Bioscience succeeded in developing a vaccine, it would be able to
  produce 200 million doses a year starting next June. The company has
  received \$3.6 million in research funding from the Bill \& Melinda
  Gates Foundation to develop a coronavirus vaccine.
\item
  \textbf{Australia} on Sunday reported its highest one-day death toll
  --- 10 people, all in the state of Victoria. Also on Sunday, the New
  South Wales Supreme Court prohibited a Black Lives Matter rally set
  for Sydney on Tuesday, citing the risk of virus transmission.
  Organizers say they plan to appeal.
\item
  \textbf{Afghanistan}'s minister of public health has urged Afghans to
  stay in their homes this coming week during Eid al-Adha, one of the
  biggest holidays of the Islamic calendar, to avoid risking a
  resurgence of the virus. Celebrations for a previous holiday --- Eid
  al-Fitr, marking the end of Ramadan and its month of fasting --- had
  spread the virus, the minister warned.
\item
  Indoor gyms and leisure centers in \textbf{England} were permitted to
  reopen on Saturday as the British government continued a planned
  gradual exit from lockdown. Britain has recorded more than 45,000
  coronavirus deaths, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has
  previously strongly defended his government's approach, told a BBC
  interviewer on Friday that there were ``very open questions'' about
  whether the country had locked down too late.
\item
  As \textbf{Spain} struggles with hundreds of local outbreaks,
  particularly in the northeast of the country, it is also
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-reopening.html}{facing
  renewed travel restrictions imposed by fellow European countries},
  which could further cripple the tourism sector that is a cornerstone
  of its economy.
\item
  The \textbf{Czech Republic} reimposed some virus restrictions on
  Saturday, according to the news agency Reuters, including a face-mask
  mandate at indoor events with over 100 people, as its daily number of
  confirmed cases surpassed 150 in the last five days and Prague was
  trying to contain an outbreak from a nightclub.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{vietnam-bans-wildlife-markets-and-trade-in-a-push-to-reduce-pandemic-risks}{%
\subsection{Vietnam bans wildlife markets and trade in a push to reduce
pandemic
risks.}\label{vietnam-bans-wildlife-markets-and-trade-in-a-push-to-reduce-pandemic-risks}}

Image

A pangolin at a rescue center in Cuc Phuong National Park run by Save
Vietnam's Wildlife, a nonprofit group.Credit...Linh Pham/Getty Images

Vietnam has banned the import of wild animals and ordered the closure of
its wildlife markets, two major measures that the government hopes will
reduce the risk of future pandemics and protect species from extinction.

The measures, announced on Thursday by Vietnam's prime minister, Nguyen
Xuan Phuc, took effect immediately and include a ban on trade in the
body parts of wild species and wildlife trading online. They do not
cover commercial farming of species considered wild.

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-rVD9dkT-yc\&t=1s}{Freeland}, a
Thailand-based international environmental group that has campaigned
against the wildlife trade, said the ban was the toughest enacted
anywhere since the emergence of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19,
including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/27/science/coronavirus-pangolin-wildlife-ban-china.html}{China's
permanent ban on wildlife trade and consumption}.

``Vietnam is to be congratulated for recognizing that Covid-19 and other
pandemics are linked to the wildlife trade, and that this trade must be
banned as a matter of international and public health security,'' said
Steven Galster, Freeland's international chairman.

The illegal wildlife trade is a thriving business in Southeast Asia and
it was unclear how committed Vietnam would be in enforcing the new ban.

The coronavirus is believed to have originated in Wuhan, China, most
likely in bats before jumping to an intermediate species --- possibly
civets, rats or pangolins --- and then to humans. Many of the first
reported cases in Wuhan were tied to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/01/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{seafood
market} that has since been permanently closed.

The SARS epidemic, which killed nearly 800, started with
the\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/19/health/coronavirus-animals-markets.html}{consumption
of wildlife} in China in 2002.

Health experts and animal advocates have long urged countries to ban the
wildlife trade to protect both humans and threatened species. Some noted
that China's recent ban on wildlife trade and consumption includes
loopholes for trade in wild animals for medicinal uses.

So-called traditional medicine using wild animal parts is popular in
Vietnam and China, which share a border. Wild animals are also an
important source of food in some parts of Southeast Asia,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/13/world/asia/coronavirus-bats-market-Indonesia.html}{including
Indonesia}.

Separately, Vietnam, which has recorded zero deaths from the coronavirus
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/asia/coronavirus-vietnam.html}{had
gone 100 days without a single case} of local transmission, reported two
positive cases over the weekend in the central city of Danang, a
57-year-old man and a 61-year-old man. In both cases the source of the
infection remains unclear. Officials said the second man's condition was
deteriorating rapidly and that he had been hospitalized and placed on a
ventilator.

\hypertarget{corporate-insiders-pocket-fortunes-in-the-rush-for-a-vaccine}{%
\subsection{Corporate insiders pocket fortunes in the rush for a
vaccine.}\label{corporate-insiders-pocket-fortunes-in-the-rush-for-a-vaccine}}

Image

A subject receiving a shot in May during a clinical trial of a potential
vaccine by Moderna.Credit...Ted S. Warren/Associated Press

A small California company called Vaxart made a surprise announcement
last month: A coronavirus vaccine it was working on had been selected by
the U.S. government to be part of Operation Warp Speed, the flagship
federal initiative to quickly develop drugs to combat Covid-19.

Vaxart's shares soared. Company insiders, who weeks earlier had received
stock options worth a few million dollars, saw the value of those awards
increase sixfold. And a hedge fund that partly controlled the company
walked away with more than \$200 million in instant profits.

In the race to develop a vaccine,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/business/coronavirus-vaccine-profits-vaxart.html}{some
companies and investors are betting that the winners stand to earn vast
profits} from selling hundreds of millions --- or even billions --- of
doses to a desperate public.

Across the pharmaceutical and medical industries, senior executives and
board members are capitalizing on that dynamic.

They are making millions of dollars after announcing positive
developments, including support from the government, in their efforts to
fight Covid-19. After such announcements, insiders from at least 11
companies --- most of them smaller firms whose fortunes often hinge on
the success or failure of a single drug --- have sold shares worth well
over \$1 billion since March, according to figures compiled for The New
York Times by Equilar, a data provider.

In some cases, company insiders are profiting from regularly scheduled
compensation or automatic stock trades. But in other situations, senior
officials appear to be pouncing on opportunities to cash out while
prices are sky high. And some companies have awarded stock options to
executives shortly before announcements about vaccine progress.

The sudden windfalls highlight the powerful financial incentives for
company officials to generate positive headlines in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{the
race for coronavirus vaccines and treatments}, even if the drugs might
never pan out.

\hypertarget{piracy-has-sharply-increased-in-asia-raising-questions-about-how-the-pandemic-is-shifting-crime}{%
\subsection{Piracy has sharply increased in Asia, raising questions
about how the pandemic is shifting
crime.}\label{piracy-has-sharply-increased-in-asia-raising-questions-about-how-the-pandemic-is-shifting-crime}}

Armed attacks against ships have nearly doubled in Asia so far this
year, according to
\href{https://www.recaap.org/resources/ck/files/reports/half-year/ReCAAP\%20ISC\%20Half\%20Yearly\%20Report\%202020.pdf}{a
report} by a 20-nation network that works to prevent piracy in the
region.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 23, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{whats-the-best-material-for-a-mask}{%
  \paragraph{What's the best material for a
  mask?}\label{whats-the-best-material-for-a-mask}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Scientists around the country
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-homemade-mask-material-DIY-face-mask-ppe.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{have
    tried to identify everyday materials that do a good job of filtering
    microscopic particles.} In recent tests, HEPA
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-homemade-mask-material-DIY-face-mask-ppe.html?action=click\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{furnace
    filters} scored high, as did vacuum cleaner bags, fabric similar to
    flannel pajamas and those of 600-count pillowcases. Other materials
    tested included layered coffee filters and scarves and bandannas.
    These scored lower, but still captured a small percentage of
    particles.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The study noted 51 incidents of piracy, referring to attacks in
international waters, or armed robbery, meaning attacks in national
waters, between January and June, compared with 28 in the same period in
2019. Of those, 16 occurred in the Singapore Strait, a busy traffic hub
where vessels appeared to be especially vulnerable.

The findings, from the Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating
Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia, document the latest
challenge for some countries in Asia already struggling to combat the
pandemic at home. India, Bangladesh and the Philippines, where the
number of incidents increased this year, have faced recent hurdles in
their coronavirus response as cases continue to pile up across the
continent.

The report also adds to emerging questions about how crime rates have
shifted in general as countries deal with the fallout from the pandemic
and the resulting economic downturn.

While some crime fell as lockdowns around the world kept people indoors,
some criminal activity has increased. Many of the largest cities in the
United States have recorded
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/upshot/murders-rising-crime-coronavirus.html}{staggering
increases} in murders during the first half of this year, even as other
violent crimes have fallen. Murder rates have spiked in cities like
Chicago, New York and Philadelphia, and the White House has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-federal-agents-cities.html}{sent
federal agents} to some of them to work with local authorities to
confront the rise in shootings and other violence.

Cybercrime appears to be more common. For instance,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/02/your-money/coronavirus-unemployment-fraud.html}{scammers
have siphoned off billions of dollars in unemployment claims} in the
United States. And
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/world/coronavirus-domestic-violence.html}{reports
of domestic abuse} have risen around the world, including in Britain,
Spain, France, Mexico and China.

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{texas-areas-where-the-virus-has-surged-are-beginning-to-be-lashed-by-hurricane-hanna}{%
\subsection{Texas areas where the virus has surged are beginning to be
lashed by Hurricane
Hanna.}\label{texas-areas-where-the-virus-has-surged-are-beginning-to-be-lashed-by-hurricane-hanna}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/25/us/25texas-storm-4/merlin_174939237_2d995a3b-8bcf-483c-a8e9-87382a68603e-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Already battered by the coronavirus pandemic, southeast Texas faced a
new but no less frightening foe on Saturday, as Hurricane Hanna slammed
the coast with heavy rains and winds predicted to reach up to 110 miles
per hour.

Hanna strengthened from a tropical storm to a Category 1 hurricane on
Saturday morning, and forecasters issued the first hurricane warning for
the southern coastal region since Hurricane Harvey struck the area in
August 2017 and caused the worst rainstorm in United States history.
Hanna's eye made landfall on Padre Island, about 60 miles north of the
U.S.-Mexico border, at about 5 p.m. on Saturday, with winds of 90 m.p.h.

The National Weather Service
\href{https://forecast.weather.gov/showsigwx.php?warnzone=TXZ242\&warncounty=TXC273\&firewxzone=TXZ242\&local_place1=3\%20Miles\%20NNE\%20Kingsville,\%20Naval\%20Air\%20Station\%20TX\&product1=Hurricane+Warning\#.XxxWW55KjIV}{warned}
that strong winds from the hurricane, the first of the Atlantic
season**,** could peel roofs from homes, mangle trees and cause power
outages, as mayors and local officials turned from one crisis mode to
another.

Coronavirus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{have
been rising in several counties} in the path of the hurricane. In Nueces
County, which includes Corpus Christi and is home to about 362,000
people, the number of virus cases and deaths reported each day has
trended upward in recent weeks,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/us/coronavirus-texas-corpus-christi.html?smid=tw-nytimes\&smtyp=cur}{fueled
in part by visitors who flocked to the beach city} because of its low
case count.

About 10,000 people in Nueces County have been infected with the virus;
more than a fifth of those cases were reported in the past week. At
least 124 people have died in the county.

In other virus-related news around the country:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Gov. Eric Holcomb of \textbf{Indiana} signed an executive order this
  past week requiring residents to wear face coverings beginning Monday
  after the state recorded a new high of more than 1,000 new coronavirus
  cases on Friday. Indianapolis in particular is seeing an upward trend
  in infection, its mayor, Joe Hogsett, said, with transmission
  occurring mostly indoors at places like gyms and bars.
\item
  In \textbf{Arizona}, where some closures but no full lockdown was
  imposed when cases exploded in June,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/coronavirus-arizona.html}{the
  number of patients hospitalized with the virus is starting to
  decline}, potentially providing lessons for other states. ``In some
  ways, it is like a large-scale version of a clinical trial,'' said Dr.
  Tom Inglesby, the director of the Center for Health Security of the
  Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. ``Arizona is one of
  the states involved and is going through crisis and now is taking a
  certain set of interventions, and we are seeing if those interventions
  work.''
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6930e1.htm?s_cid=mm6930e1_w}{A
  new report from
  the}\textbf{\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6930e1.htm?s_cid=mm6930e1_w}{Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention}} shows that people with mild
  Covid-19 cases --- including young adults with no underlying
  conditions --- can suffer symptoms that linger for weeks. A telephone
  survey of nearly 300 adults who tested positive but were not
  hospitalized showed that more than a third were still suffering
  symptoms two to three weeks later, including fatigue, cough and
  shortness of breath.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-supreme-court-rejects-a-nevada-churchs-challenge-to-shutdown-restrictions}{%
\subsection{The Supreme Court rejects a Nevada church's challenge to
shutdown
restrictions.}\label{the-supreme-court-rejects-a-nevada-churchs-challenge-to-shutdown-restrictions}}

Image

The justices ruled on a case involving a Nevada church's challenge to
state restrictions on attendance at religious services.Credit...Stefani
Reynolds for The New York Times

The Supreme Court on Friday
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/19pdf/19a1070_08l1.pdf\#page=12\#page=13}{rejected
a request} from a church in Nevada to block enforcement of state
restrictions on attendance at religious services.

The vote was 5 to 4, with Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joining the
court's four more liberal members to form a majority.

The court's brief order was unsigned and gave no reasons, which is
typical when the justices act on emergency applications. The court's
four more conservative members filed three dissents, totaling 24 pages.

Calvary Chapel Dayton Valley in Dayton, Nev., argued that the state
treated houses of worship less favorably than it did casinos,
restaurants and amusement parks. Those businesses have been limited to
50 percent of their fire-code capacities, while houses of worship have
been subject to a flat 50-person limit.

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., in a dissent joined by Justices Clarence
Thomas and Brett M. Kavanaugh, wrote that the distinction made no sense.

``The Constitution guarantees the free exercise of religion,'' Justice
Alito wrote. ``It says nothing about the freedom to play craps or
blackjack, to feed tokens into a slot machine or to engage in any other
game of chance. But the governor of Nevada apparently has different
priorities.''

``A public health emergency does not give governors and other public
officials carte blanche to disregard the Constitution for as long as the
medical problem persists,'' Justice Alito wrote.

The court considered a similar objection from a California church in
May, rejecting it by a 5-to-4 vote.

\hypertarget{trump-officials-meet-on-capitol-hill-hoping-to-resolve-party-disputes-on-a-pandemic-relief-proposal}{%
\subsection{Trump officials meet on Capitol Hill, hoping to resolve
party disputes on a pandemic relief
proposal.}\label{trump-officials-meet-on-capitol-hill-hoping-to-resolve-party-disputes-on-a-pandemic-relief-proposal}}

Image

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin at the Capitol on
Thursday.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

Top Trump administration officials returned to Capitol Hill on Saturday
trying to iron out the details of the Republicans' \$1 trillion proposal
for coronavirus relief, after a week largely consumed with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/us/politics/republicans-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{intraparty
disagreements over what should be in the package}.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Mark Meadows, the White House
chief of staff, huddled with aides to Senator Mitch McConnell, the
majority leader, who plans to introduce his party's proposal on Monday.
Mr. McConnell was in his home state of Kentucky, where he is running for
re-election.

``We have a fundamental understanding, and we just want to make sure all
the paperwork is ready and finished so it can be introduced on Monday,''
Mr. Mnuchin told reporters on Capitol Hill.

The rare Saturday visit from top administration officials underscored
Republicans' predicament. They had hoped to unveil a unified proposal
this week to serve as their bargaining position in negotiations with
Democrats.

But they were stymied by disagreements on a range of issues, like a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/business/payroll-tax-cut-trump-recession.html}{payroll
tax cut} --- which the White House ultimately agreed to abandon for this
relief package --- and changes to a federal program providing enhanced
unemployment benefits. That program, established as part of the \$2.2
trillion stimulus law in March, expires next week and is now almost
certain to lapse, throwing millions of Americans relying on the checks
into limbo.

Senate Republicans and the White House are still haggling over how to
scale back the current \$600-a-week expanded benefit, which most
Republicans view as too generous.

The alternatives under consideration include lowering the weekly payment
for two months, and then setting the size of payments after that to a
percentage of a worker's previous income.

``We're not going to use taxpayer money to pay people more to stay
home,'' Mr. Mnuchin said. ``So we're going to transition to a U.I.
system that is based on wage replacement.''

But the National Association of State Workforce Agencies warned Capitol
Hill this past week that such a significant change to the current
program was likely to take months for states to enact, according to a
memo obtained by The New York Times.

\hypertarget{during-the-pandemic-a-growing-number-of-medical-workers-have-been-helping-patients-register-to-vote}{%
\subsection{During the pandemic, a growing number of medical workers
have been helping patients register to
vote.}\label{during-the-pandemic-a-growing-number-of-medical-workers-have-been-helping-patients-register-to-vote}}

Image

Dr. Alister Martin on his way to Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, where he has created kiosks to register patients to
vote.Credit...Tony Luong for The New York Times

Alister Martin, a 31-year-old emergency room doctor at Massachusetts
General Hospital, established a project last year called
\href{https://vot-er.org/}{VotER}, setting up kiosks in the hospital
that included iPads loaded with TurboVote software and posters with QR
codes that patients can scan with cellphones, automatically bringing up
a website where they can register.

His project is spreading across the country as traditional in-person
voter-registration efforts have been curbed because of the spread of the
virus. Since May, more than 3,000 health care providers **** have
requested kits to register their patients to vote, including at flagship
hospitals across the country.

``There will be a time where, above the din of suffering, we ask, `How
can we use this to make something better of our situation?''' said Dr.
Martin, who always wears a ``Ready to Vote?'' badge around his neck.

After months of watching the mismanagement of the response, and fearing
for their own lives as well as their patients', many doctors and nurses
now see the connection between their work and politics more clearly.

``Previously, physicians taking a political stance was seen as possibly
unprofessional,'' said Kelly Wong, a medical student who is part of
\href{https://www.patientvoting.com/}{Patient Voting}, a Rhode
Island-based effort to provide hospitalized patients with information
that can help them navigate the gantlet of voting from a hospital bed.
``Civic engagement of our patients and our communities is really
important to changing health outcomes.''

\hypertarget{tailors-know-new-yorkers-pandemic-secret-everybody-got-fat}{%
\subsection{Tailors know New Yorkers' pandemic secret: `Everybody got
fat!'}\label{tailors-know-new-yorkers-pandemic-secret-everybody-got-fat}}

Image

Porfirio Arias, right, and his brother, Rafael, at their tailor shop in
Queens.Credit...September Dawn Bottoms/The New York Times

In New York City, where gyms are still closed and Netflix is the safest
evening entertainment, the phenomenon of stay-at-home weight gain ---
playfully called the
\href{https://www.yalemedicine.org/stories/quarantine-15-weight-gain-pandemic/}{Quarantine
15 by some} --- has brought an unexpected windfall for some tailors.
Some say they have seen business rise by as much as 80 percent, with
customers asking for buttons to be moved, waistbands lengthened and
jackets made more roomy.

Business was bleak at Woodside Tailor Shop in Queens during the long
months of pandemic lockdown. There was no need for party dress
alterations, or any pressure for slacks to be hemmed.

But things started picking back up in June, with one particular service
in sudden demand: People needed a bit more breathing room in their
clothing.

``Everybody got fat!'' said Porfirio Arias, 66, a tailor at the Woodside
shop. ``It's not only in New York. It's all over the world that people
got fat.''

The boost in business has been welcome for many tailors, who often
operate in storefronts shared with dry cleaners, which have suffered
mightily during the pandemic. Dry cleaning businesses at the peak of the
pandemic lost an estimated 80 to 90 percent in sales compared to
previous years, and are still down about 40 to 50 percent, according to
data collected by the North East Fabricare Association.

Many tailors fear that the industry may not bounce back even as more
people return to work, if the traditional workplace culture shifts to
the new work-from-home ethos --- meaning more sweatpants and fewer
bespoke suits that need to be cleaned, pressed or altered.

Of course, not all New Yorkers have been able to work from home, and the
ability to sequester has largely fallen along socioeconomic lines:
Putting on pandemic pounds is a small downside of what is in essence a
tremendous privilege.

NEW YORK ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{children-rejoice-as-new-york-citys-public-pools-reopen}{%
\subsection{Children rejoice as New York City's public pools
reopen.}\label{children-rejoice-as-new-york-citys-public-pools-reopen}}

Image

Jayven Jimenez, 12, said he had been visiting Fisher Pool in Queens for
four years. ``A lot of people are not here because of the pandemic,'' he
said. ``I feel safer because there are less people.''Credit...Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times

Eight outdoor pools across New York City's five boroughs opened on
Friday, despite the pandemic and budget cuts. In nearly 80 years, the
pools had never missed a season. But this year, it was a close call.

In April, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that outdoor public pools
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/nyregion/nyc-pools-schools-closed-summer.html}{would
stay closed for the summer} in an effort to save money. But in June,
\href{https://www.6sqft.com/nyc-public-pools-reopening-summer-2020/}{he
reversed that decision,} providing nearly \$10 million to the Department
of Parks and Recreation to
\href{https://www.nycgovparks.org/facilities/outdoor-pools}{reinstate
15} of the city's 53 outdoor pools.

Eight outdoor pools across New York City's five boroughs opened on
Friday, and seven more are set to open next Saturday.

The pools are operating at 70 percent capacity, and attendees must wear
face coverings at all times, except in the water. Social-distancing
ambassadors are stationed at locker rooms and poolside to watch for
overcrowding, as they also do at beaches. Swimmers are expected to keep
six feet away from others in the pool.

Here are other developments from the New York area:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  At least two dozen lifeguards from \textbf{Long Beach Island, N.J.},
  tested positive for the coronavirus after attending social events
  together, according to
  \href{https://www.nj.com/coronavirus/2020/07/20-lbi-lifeguards-test-positive-for-coronavirus-after-attending-parties-together.html}{a
  report from NJ.com}.
\item
  Gov. Andrew Cuomo said on Saturday that the number of people
  hospitalized with the virus in \textbf{New York} had dropped to the
  lowest levels since the pandemic began. According to Mr. Cuomo's
  \href{https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-hospitalizations-drop-below-1000-first-time-march-18-0}{statement},
  996 people in the state were hospitalized on Friday, the first time
  that figure had fallen below 1,000 since March 18.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{how-to-move-during-a-pandemic}{%
\subsection{How to move during a
pandemic.}\label{how-to-move-during-a-pandemic}}

Here are answers to your questions about how to safely and ethically
change your location.

Reporting was contributed by Fahim Abed, Manuela Andreoni, Aman Batheja,
Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Chau Doan, Choe Sang-Hun, Emily Cochrane,
Jesse Drucker, Nicholas Fandos, David Gelles, Denise Grady, Tyler Hicks,
Juliana Kim, Nicholas Kulish, Michael Levenson, Adam Liptak, By Ernesto
Londoño, Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio, Sarah Mervosh, Raphael Minder,
Sarah Maslin Nir, Zach Montague, Richard C. Paddock, Elian Peltier,
Simon Romero, Farah Stockman, Derrick Bryson Taylor, Julie Turkewitz and
Jeremy White.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
