Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Bid for Party Unity,
Biden Moves Beyond Restoring the Pre-Trump Era

\url{https://nyti.ms/2SZ38hW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-bid-for-party-unity-biden-moves-beyond-restoring-the-pre-trump-era}{%
\section{In Bid for Party Unity, Biden Moves Beyond Restoring the
Pre-Trump
Era}\label{in-bid-for-party-unity-biden-moves-beyond-restoring-the-pre-trump-era}}

Trying to win over progressives and aware that the coronavirus crisis is
upending the political landscape, Joe Biden is increasingly using the
language of systemic disruption.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/30/us/politics/00bidenmessaging1/merlin_169919709_70cd0d84-6345-420a-9a93-3c69a18d0e6f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/14/us/author-head-astead/author-head-astead-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead W.
Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published May 13, 2020Updated May 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Throughout the Democratic presidential primary,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/politics/trump-biden-subpoena.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.'s} rivals criticized his focus on restoring America to the
pre-\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/20/us/politics/trump-biden-subpoena.html}{Trump}
era, accusing him of promoting a backward-looking political vision that
ignored the deep-rooted causes of the nation's problems.

Mr. Biden's message to voters sometimes fueled that perception: He
constantly invoked the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/14/us/politics/trump-obama.html}{Obama}
legacy. He leaned on longtime party donors and endorsements from
establishment Democrats --- some of whom had been out of office for
years. He criticized some of the progressive ideas of his primary
rivals.

But as he steps into the general election having vanquished the party's
left wing, and the nation reels from a pandemic that has devastated the
economy, Mr. Biden is striking fewer of the moderate notes that won him
the nomination, instead courting progressives with a new openness to
systemic disruption.

The clearest sign of that shift came on Wednesday, when Mr. Biden
announced a slate of joint policy task forces with Senator Bernie
Sanders focused on issues ranging from climate change to criminal
justice reform. The task force members include stalwart Biden allies,
but also a who's who of ``Medicare for all'' champions, advocates for
eliminating college debt, and critics of the Obama administration's
immigration policy --- the kind of activists who have long been
skeptical of Mr. Biden's more incremental instincts.

Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, perhaps the
nation's most prominent young progressive, is co-chair of the climate
change task force along with former Secretary of State John Kerry, a
significant development as Mr. Biden seeks to improve his standing with
younger and more liberal voters.

While the task forces have yet to convene, and it is far from clear
whether they will produce policy results or simply the appearance of
political harmony, Mr. Biden is plainly trying to unite the most
progressive wing of the party with the Democratic establishment. That's
a goal critical to delivering a big Democratic vote against President
Trump, and his
\href{https://news.gallup.com/interactives/185273/r.aspx}{united
Republican Party,} in November.

``I think I can speak for a lot of young people in that I was not
motivated or inspired by Biden's refrain of a return to normalcy,'' said
Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the progressive climate
activism group Sunrise Movement, who will join Ms. Ocasio-Cortez on the
climate policy working group. ``If you want to energize our generation,
give us a vision of what we're fighting for --- and not just what we're
fighting against.''

In recent weeks, Mr. Biden has detailed an agenda that increasingly
features progressive policies and language. Where he once
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/18/us/politics/joe-biden-philadelphia-rally.html}{pitched
a message anchored in electability}, he has now embraced a rhetorical
stew that mixes the ``hope'' of former President Barack Obama with the
populism of Mr. Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren.

It's a reflection of political sensitivity to the national mood, which
risks turning to overwhelming anger as economic pain builds. But it is
also an implicit acknowledgment that Mr. Biden cannot win by merely
promising to remove Mr. Trump.

``Yes, I've endorsed Vice President Biden and yes, we're working to help
organize progressives,'' said Representative Barbara Lee of California,
a former chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. ``But we have to
make sure that an agenda that speaks to the aspirations of all Americans
is an agenda that he embraces.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/30/us/politics/00bidenmessaging2/merlin_160570641_f3c791b2-3d1b-4cf1-b6e2-02cb5a4f6474-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In recent weeks, Mr. Biden's words and his policies have drifted left.

He announced
\href{https://joebiden.com/highlights-from-joe-bidens-agenda-for-the-black-community/}{a
new plan} last week focusing on systemic racism, and
\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2020/05/who-you-calling-sleepy-joe-biden-on-his-youth-agenda-internet-memes-and-fighting-trump-from-his-house}{indicated}
in a Snapchat interview that he supported a federal rent bailout. In
discussing big businesses and stimulus money, he recently snarled in a
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/04/25/joe-biden-green-stimulus-207848}{Politico
interview}, ``This is the second time we've bailed their asses out.''

And this month, he was
\href{https://www.miamiherald.com/article242350451.html}{co-author of an
op-ed article} with Ms. Warren in McClatchy newspapers, acknowledging
that ``for many Americans, our economy wasn't working even before the
devastation of the Covid-19 crisis.''

``The blinders have been taken off,'' Mr. Biden said at a recent
fund-raiser. ``Because of this Covid crisis, I think people are
realizing: `My Lord. Look at what is possible.'''

Such a messaging shift presents both opportunities and challenges for
Mr. Biden, who spent much of the primary
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/18/us/politics/joe-biden-2020-polls.html}{keenly
focused} on how a presidential candidate's promises would play in
moderate states and in down-ballot races in the general election.

His recent words have been met with skepticism from progressive critics,
who argue that his long legislative record in Washington suggests that
the current changes are cosmetic. At the same time, at another
fund-raiser, a donor told Mr. Biden's wife that the candidate was
already moving too far to the left --- an illustration of the competing
forces Mr. Biden must navigate.

Mr. Biden's advisers have indicated to donors and other supporters this
spring that the campaign is focused on uniting the Democratic Party
before turning to broader general election outreach.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:37 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{A
Marist poll shows Biden widening his lead in
Pennsylvania.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:02 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{Texas's
system for verifying signatures on mail-in ballots is unconstitutional,
a judge
ruled.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the board.}

Jared Bernstein, who during Mr. Biden's vice-presidential tenure served
as his chief economic adviser and continues to informally advise him,
said it was a ``fair conclusion'' that Mr. Biden's calls for change had
grown more pointed in recent weeks. Mr. Bernstein said that the economic
ruin and the struggles of the Trump administration ``loom very large for
him,'' given
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/04/us/politics/biden-obama-stimulus.html}{Mr.
Biden's role in leading the Obama administration's response} to the
recession in 2009.

``Like many of us, he's trying to suss out whether we're at a kind of
turning point,'' Mr. Bernstein said, ``where on the other side of this
virus a lot of people are going to look around and say, `We need a far
more competent government sector that can insulate us from shocks that
come fast and furiously in a global economy.'''

More urgently, the mark of a successful campaign will be if
working-class Americans believe that ``Joe Biden's on my side and Donald
Trump betrays workers,'' said Senator Sherrod Brown, a pro-labor
Democrat of Ohio, who speaks regularly with Mr. Biden's staff.

In any earlier presidential cycle, Mr. Biden's policy proposals could
have been considered far-reaching --- promoting a public option for
health care, for example, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/04/us/politics/joe-biden-climate-plan.html}{embracing
the overarching themes} of the Green New Deal to combat climate change.

But throughout the primary, he opposed many of progressives' litmus-test
issues. He also predicted that the Republican Party will have an
``epiphany'' once Mr. Trump is out of office, a view of political
compromise that some Democrats believe is out of step with Trump-era
tribalism.

Despite that skepticism, party leaders who have recently endorsed him,
including Mr. Obama, Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, have each pitched Mr.
Biden's potential administration as one capable of ushering in an era of
progressive change.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/us/politics/obama-endorses-biden.html}{Mr.
Obama, in his endorsement video}, even hinted at the criticism lodged by
Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and others, saying: ``There's too much unfinished
business for us to just look backwards. We have to look to the future.''

Image

Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Senator Bernie Sanders at a
rally in Durham, N.H., in February.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The New York
Times

At a recent virtual fund-raiser, Mr. Biden described a need to move in a
bolder direction --- while also avoiding Mr. Sanders's brand of
democratic socialism.

``Look at the institutional changes we can make --- without us becoming
a socialist country, or any of that malarkey,'' Mr. Biden said.

The remark ruffled some on the left who thought Mr. Biden was being
dismissive, while some conservatives accused him of using a crisis to
press his agenda. But amid skyrocketing unemployment and significant
disapproval of Mr. Trump's handling of the crisis, it captured how Mr.
Biden is one of many politicians adjusting their ideological framing to
the scale of the current crisis.

Former Representative Steve Israel of New York, a Biden ally, said the
former vice president must navigate a fine line: engage progressives
without alienating moderates, like those who helped him secure the
nomination.

``You cannot afford to allow a swath of the electorate to sit home
stewing on Election Day,'' he said.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
