Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}C.D.C. Changes Testing Guidance to
Exclude People Without Covid-19 Symptoms, Worrying Experts

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FYHQ0t}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1bcedc0-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1bcedc1-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1bd14d0-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1c35660-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1c35661-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=e1c37d70-f4b3-11ea-8aa9-63c77993ef22\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{cdc-changes-testing-guidance-to-exclude-people-without-covid-19-symptoms-worrying-experts}{%
\section{C.D.C. Changes Testing Guidance to Exclude People Without
Covid-19 Symptoms, Worrying
Experts}\label{cdc-changes-testing-guidance-to-exclude-people-without-covid-19-symptoms-worrying-experts}}

The U.S. first lady, Melania Trump, called Covid-19 an ``invisible
enemy'' and acknowledged the pandemic's human toll. Kim Jong-un
acknowledged `shortcomings' in North Korea's fight against the virus.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 25, 2020Updated Aug. 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This briefing has ended. Read live
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html}{coronavirus
updates here}.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3ff60f07}{The C.D.C. changes testing
  guidelines to exclude those exposed to virus who don't exhibit
  symptoms.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-56c08b41}{The Trump administration ordered
  hospitals to report data to H.H.S. or risk losing funding.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1ba221ee}{At the Republican National
  Convention, Melania Trump acknowledges the pandemic's human toll.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-42aca3e1}{`No second chances': Colleges are
  coming down hard on students who violate virus restrictions.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-464ce7c5}{Kim Jong-un acknowledges
  `shortcomings' in North Korea's fight against Covid-19.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6ad04efb}{Jail time or a \$569,000 fine: The
  price of breaking quarantine can be steep.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-f61c099}{Two more cases of reinfection were
  reported, this time in Europe.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/25virus-briefing-testing/merlin_175997925_615015c4-4fa1-4095-a490-3ae7d525b287-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-cdc-changes-testing-guidelines-to-exclude-those-exposed-to-virus-who-dont-exhibit-symptoms}{%
\subsection{The C.D.C. changes testing guidelines to exclude those
exposed to virus who don't exhibit
symptoms.}\label{the-cdc-changes-testing-guidelines-to-exclude-those-exposed-to-virus-who-dont-exhibit-symptoms}}

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention quietly
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/testing-overview.html}{modified
its coronavirus testing guidelines} this week to exclude people who do
not have symptoms of Covid-19 --- even if they have been recently
exposed to the virus.

Experts questioned the revision, pointing to the importance of
identifying infections in the brief window immediately before the onset
of symptoms, when many individuals are thought to be most contagious.

Models suggest that
\href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{about half of
transmission events} can be traced back to individuals still in the
so-called pre-symptomatic stage,
\href{https://www.pnas.org/content/117/30/17513}{before they have
started feeling ill} --- if they ever feel sick at all.

A more lax approach to testing, experts said, could delay crucial
treatments,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/health/coronavirus-testing-viral-spread.html}{as
well as obscure the coronavirus's true spread in the community}. Case
numbers remain persistently high across much of the United States,
though they have been falling in recent weeks, to an average of about
43,000 new cases a day from a peak of more than 66,000 a month ago. Many
of the states that saw the largest outbreaks in early summer are now
reporting sustained progress, including Arizona and Florida. But parts
of the Midwest, as well as Hawaii and some U.S. territories, are still
seeing increases in new cases.

``This is potentially dangerous,'' said Dr. Krutika Kuppalli, an
infectious disease physician in Palo Alto, Calif. Restricting testing to
only people with obvious symptoms of Covid-19 means ``you're not looking
for a lot of people who are potential spreaders of disease,'' she added.
``I feel like this is going to make things worse.''

Prior iterations of the C.D.C.'s testing guidelines struck a markedly
different tone, explicitly stating that ``testing is recommended for all
close contacts'' of people infected with the coronavirus, regardless of
symptoms. The agency also specifically emphasized ``the potential for
asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic transmission'' as an important factor
in the spread of disease.

The C.D.C.'s newest version, which was posted on Monday, amended the
agency's guidance to say that people who have been in close contact with
a person with the coronavirus --- typically defined as being within 6
feet of that person for at least 15 minutes --- ``do not necessarily
need a test'' if they do not have symptoms. Exceptions, the agency
noted, might be made for ``vulnerable'' individuals, or if health care
providers or state or local public health officials recommend testing.

``Wow, that is a walk-back,'' said Susan Butler-Wu, a clinical
microbiologist at the University of California's Keck School of
Medicine. ``We're in the middle of a pandemic, and that's a really big
change.''

Dr. Butler-Wu said she's concerned that the guidelines would be
misinterpreted as implying that people without symptoms were unable to
pass the coronavirus to others --- a falsehood that experts have been
trying for months to dispel.

The reason behind the shift in testing recommendations remains unclear.
In response to an inquiry from The New York Times, a representative for
the C.D.C. directed the questions to the Department of Health and Human
Services. An H.H.S. spokesperson said that ``the decision to be tested
should be one made in collaboration with public health officials or your
health care provider based on individual circumstances and the status of
community spread.''

\hypertarget{the-trump-administration-ordered-hospitals-to-report-data-to-hhs-or-risk-losing-funding}{%
\subsection{The Trump administration ordered hospitals to report data to
H.H.S. or risk losing
funding.}\label{the-trump-administration-ordered-hospitals-to-report-data-to-hhs-or-risk-losing-funding}}

Image

Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, called the new rules a ``dramatic acceleration of our efforts
to track and control the spread of Covid-19.''Credit...Doug Mills/The
New York Times

The Trump administration on Tuesday threatened hospitals with revoking
their Medicare and Medicaid funding if they do not report coronavirus
patient data and test results to the Department of Health and Human
Services.

The threat was included in new
\href{https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/trump-administration-strengthens-covid-19-surveillance-new-reporting-and-testing-requirements}{emergency
rules}, announced by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
that make mandatory what has until now been a voluntary program.

The new rules generated an immediate backlash from the American Hospital
Association, which branded them a ``heavy-handed regulatory approach''
that was ``announced in final form without consultation, or the
opportunity to provide feedback.''

Rick Pollack, the association's president and chief executive officer,
called the changes ``disturbing.''

``It's beyond perplexing why CMS would use a regulatory sledgehammer ---
threatening Medicare participation --- to the very organizations that
are on the front lines in the fight against Covid-19,'' Mr. Pollack said
in a statement. ``This rule should be reversed immediately.''

The rules come amid controversy over the current voluntary data
reporting system. In July, the administration abruptly ordered hospitals
to stop reporting coronavirus patient information to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention and send results instead to a private
vendor, Pittsburgh-based TeleTracking Technologies, which provides the
data to H.H.S.

That move has raised concerns
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F12\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fhealth-experts-warning-coronavirus-data.html}{among
public health experts} and Democrats on Capitol Hill, who worry about
scientific integrity and object to sidelining government experts.

Administration officials say the switch was necessary to improve
reporting of testing data, and the rules issued Tuesday will give the
administration an enforcement stick.

``Hospitals will face possible termination of Medicare and Medicaid
payment if unable to correct reporting deficiencies,'' Tuesday's
announcement states.

The hospital reporting requirement is part of what the centers described
as ``sweeping regulatory changes'' intended to better track and combat
the coronavirus pandemic. The new rules also require nursing homes to
test staff and offer testing to residents for the virus.

The agency said it would soon announce guidance for the frequency of
nursing home staff testing, which will be based on the degree of
Covid-19 spread in individual communities.

Nursing homes are already required to offer tests to residents when
there is an outbreak or other residents show symptoms. Like hospitals,
nursing homes will face penalties for noncompliance. They will be
inspected and those cited ``may face enforcement sanctions'' such as
``civil money penalties in excess of \$400 per day, or over \$8,000 for
an instance of noncompliance,'' the announcement said.

``These new rules represent a dramatic acceleration of our efforts to
track and control the spread of Covid-19,'' Seema Verma, the
administrator of the centers, said in a statement.

``Reporting of test results and other data are vitally important tools
for controlling the spread of the virus and give providers on the front
lines what they need to fight it.''

\hypertarget{at-the-republican-national-convention-melania-trump-acknowledges-the-pandemics-human-toll}{%
\subsection{At the Republican National Convention, Melania Trump
acknowledges the pandemic's human
toll.}\label{at-the-republican-national-convention-melania-trump-acknowledges-the-pandemics-human-toll}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/us/politics/25melania-top/25melania-top-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

In a speech that struck a strikingly different tone from others at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/25/us/rnc-convention-election?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#mike-pompeo-in-a-break-with-state-dept-protocol-praised-trumps-foreign-policy-record-from-jerusalem}{the
Republican National Convention}, the first lady, Melania Trump, on
Tuesday acknowledged the pandemic's human toll and praised the efforts
of front-line medical personnel and other essential workers.

In her speech from the Rose Garden at the White House,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/us/politics/melania-trump.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{Mrs.
Trump called Covid-19 an ``invisible enemy''} that had swept across the
nation. She also extended her sympathies to those who were ill or who
had lost loved ones.

``I know many people are anxious and some feel helpless,'' she said. ``I
want you to know: You're not alone. My husband's administration will not
stop fighting until there is an effective treatment or vaccine available
to everyone.''

``Donald will not rest until he has done all he can to take care of
everyone impacted by this terrible pandemic,'' she added.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T04:28:22.975Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

So far, most of the convention speakers who mentioned the pandemic have
referred to it in the past tense and rarely mentioned its national toll.
As of Tuesday evening, more than 5.7 million people in the United States
have been infected with the coronavirus and at least 178,300 have died,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}.

The tone of Mrs. Trump's remarks also stood in contrast to her husband's
focus on defending his response to the virus and pinning the blame for
it on China, while tending to mention the lives lost as an afterthought.

Mrs. Trump spoke moments after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivered
a shorter and harsher speech,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/world/middleeast/pompeo-jerusalem-rnc.html}{from
a rooftop in Jerusalem}, that was more in line with the president's
rhetoric on the pandemic. Mr. Pompeo, who is among the administration's
leading China hawks, argued that Mr. Trump had ``pulled back the curtain
on the predatory aggression of the Chinese Communist Party,'' including
its handling of the coronavirus.

``The president has held China accountable for covering up the China
virus, and allowing it to spread death and destruction in America and
around the world,'' Mr. Pompeo said at one point. ``And he will not rest
until justice is done.''

Earlier in the night, Larry Kudlow, the president's top economic
adviser, boasted that President Trump had led an ``extraordinary
rescue'' to ``successfully fight the Covid virus'' and save the U.S.
economy. He failed to mention that the virus was still raging and
glossed over the immense unemployment and economic pain that the crisis
has created.

\hypertarget{no-second-chances-colleges-are-coming-down-hard-on-students-who-violate-virus-restrictions}{%
\subsection{`No second chances': Colleges are coming down hard on
students who violate virus
restrictions.}\label{no-second-chances-colleges-are-coming-down-hard-on-students-who-violate-virus-restrictions}}

Image

Students gathered on the Syracuse University campus last week in
Syracuse, N.Y.Credit...Walter Freeman/Walter Freeman, via Associated
Press

As colleges and universities across the country grapple with rising
coronavirus cases, they are increasingly disciplining newly returned
students for violating pandemic safety rules, and pressuring
fraternities and sororities to stop holding events that violate bans on
partying.

At the
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fsafeandhealthy.osu.edu\%2Fmessages\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F21\%2Fwe-can-do-together}{Ohio
State University}, 228 students have received interim suspensions for
violating rules against large gatherings during the pandemic, the
university said on Tuesday. Most of the students were living off campus,
and have been asked to remain away from campus until their cases have
been adjudicated; some of the suspensions have already been reversed.
Violators who live on campus could lose their university housing if
their cases are deemed serious enough, the school said.

\href{https://www.northjersey.com/story/news/essex/montclair/2020/08/24/msu-suspends-11-students-covid-safety-violations/3430519001/}{Montclair
State University} in New Jersey, which reopened its dorms this month and
began classes Tuesday, said it had already suspended 11 students from
living in university housing for gathering without masks or social
distancing.

``Please understand, there will be no second chances,'' school officials
warned students in an email message sent over the weekend (not a text
message, as an earlier version of this item said). ``Any student who
violates the safety protocols will be immediately suspended from housing
(possibly for the remainder of the year), will be referred to the
director of student conduct for disciplinary action and will be
immediately de-registered from any courses or programs that have an
on-campus component.''

\href{https://news.syr.edu/blog/2020/08/20/additional-information-about-last-nights-quad-gathering/}{Syracuse
University} suspended 23 students last week after a gathering on the
campus quad that the dean of students decried as ``incredibly
reckless.'' Thirty-six students were suspended by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/22/us/college-campus-covid.html}{Purdue
University} after a party at a cooperative house.
\href{https://news.psu.edu/story/629021/2020/08/20/campus-life/president-eric-barron-shares-message-community}{Penn
State University} suspended a fraternity for holding an unsanctioned
social, and
\href{https://www.drake.edu/coronavirus/updates/dean-of-students/?n=messagesfromdos-accordion\&p=1}{Drake
University} banned at least 14 students from campus for two weeks for
partying.

In Florida, the president of the
\href{https://messages.miami.edu/messages/2020/08/08-24-20-presidents-letter.html}{University
of Miami}, Julio Frenk, said the school had begun evicting students from
dorms for violations, warning in a video that the university --- which
has had 141 cases since the start of the school year --- would continue
to monitor student behavior on and off campus.

Outbreaks have emerged at campuses across the country as students have
streamed back for fall classes. Many have been linked to large
gatherings that were held despite state, local and campus public health
rules. Among the recent reports: 566 cases among students, faculty and
staff \href{https://uasystem.edu/covid-19-dashboard?0}{at the University
of Alabama}, **** most of them on its Tuscaloosa campus, where
\href{https://www.al.com/news/2020/08/university-of-alabama-reports-more-than-500-confirmed-covid-19-cases.html?outputType=amp\&__twitter_impression=true}{classes
resumed} last week, and
\href{https://coronavirus.usc.edu/2020/08/24/8-24-community-health-advisory-covid-19-cases-in-off-campus-residences/}{43
new cases} at the University of Southern California, which is holding
online classes but giving students limited access to campus.

All told, The New York Times has identified more than 23,000 cases on
750 campuses since the coronavirus crisis began in the late winter and
spring.

In other education news:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  To help improve \textbf{poor ventilation in New York City's aging
  public school buildings}, the mayor said Tuesday that city inspectors
  would assess every classroom by Sept. 1. and not allow the
  inadequately ventilated ones to reopen. About 10,000 portable air
  filters will be installed in nurses' offices, isolation rooms and
  other high-risk areas, he said. The powerful teachers' union has
  demanded that the city update ventilation systems before the scheduled
  start of classes in a hybrid model on Sept. 10, but
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening-plan.html}{many
  principals and teachers} say they do not believe the buildings will be
  ready by then and have urged the mayor to push the start of in-person
  reopening back a few weeks.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{highest} per
capita}{Where cases are highest per capita}}\label{where-cases-are-highest-per-capita}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Iowa
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ark.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Tenn.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ala.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Kan.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ill.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Wis.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ga.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/302ba6727c05718531b77d2c9198e63d8a6ce6a5/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{}

\hypertarget{college-cases-}{%
\subsubsection{College cases ›}\label{college-cases-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/302ba6727c05718531b77d2c9198e63d8a6ce6a5/images/orphan_colleges-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{kim-jong-un-acknowledges-shortcomings-in-north-koreas-fight-against-covid-19}{%
\subsection{Kim Jong-un acknowledges `shortcomings' in North Korea's
fight against
Covid-19.}\label{kim-jong-un-acknowledges-shortcomings-in-north-koreas-fight-against-covid-19}}

Image

Kim Jong-un at a meeting of top North Korean officials on Tuesday,
according to state media, which released this photo.~Credit...Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

\textbf{​}North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, has urged his government to
eliminate ``shortcomings'' and ``​defects'' in its battle against
Covid-19 and to brace for a typhoon that is approaching the Korean
Peninsula, state media reported on Wednesday.

Mr. Kim convened the ruling Workers' Party's Political Bureau and its
Executive Policy Council on Tuesday, a week after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/world/asia/north-korea-economy-coronavirus.html}{making
a rare admission} that his five-year economic plan had faltered in the
face of​ international sanctions, the coronavirus and recent flood
damage.​ North Korea plans to hold a party congress in January to chart
a new five-year economic plan.

​During this week's meetings, Mr. Kim cited ``facts about some
shortcomings in state emergency anti-epidemic work'' and ordered active
measures ``to overcome the defects urgently,'' the North's official
Korean Central News Agency reported on Wednesday, without elaborating.

North Korea has reported no coronavirus infections,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{but
outside experts are skeptical}, citing the country's decrepit public
health system and its proximity to China, where the virus was first
detected.

Last week, South Korea's National Intelligence Service told lawmakers in
Seoul that the North's fear of the virus had deepened since July,
forcing the authorities to tighten travel in and out of Pyongyang, the
North's capital, and western and southern provinces.

The South Korean spy agency also said that the North's foreign currency
reserves had diminished as United Nations sanctions and the pandemic
slashed its exports to China, its main trading partner, according to
lawmakers who were briefed by the agency. Budget constraints have so far
forced Mr. Kim to scale back his construction projects and reduce his
military's summer field exercises by up to 65 percent, they said.

Another strain on the North's economy has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/world/asia/north-korea-floods-coronavirus.html}{an
unusually long monsoon season} that caused extensive damage to farmland
earlier this month. A fresh storm, Typhoon Bavi, is now expected to hit
later this week, raising fears that back-to-back natural disasters could
wreak further economic havoc.

The United States Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service
\href{https://www.ers.usda.gov/webdocs/outlooks/99088/gfa-31.pdf?v=6328.4}{estimated}this
month that about six in ten North Koreans are food-insecure in 2020.

On Tuesday, Mr. Kim urged his government to ``thoroughly prevent the
casualties by typhoon and minimize the damage to the crops,'' saying
that the typhoon will decide ``whether we would successfully wrap up
this year's farming or not.''

Mr. Kim's father, Kim Jong-il, ruled through his inner circles, but his
son has convened party meetings more frequently, in an apparent attempt
to make his government look more transparent. So far this year, the
party's Political Bureau has met seven times.

``The situation in North Korea must be dire for Kim Jong-un to hold so
many high-level conferences,'' said Leif-Eric Easley, a professor of
international studies at Ewha Womans University in Seoul. ``The party
does not want to appear flat-footed and will take credit if a crisis is
averted.''

\hypertarget{jail-time-or-a-569000-fine-the-price-of-breaking-quarantine-can-be-steep}{%
\subsection{Jail time or a \$569,000 fine: The price of breaking
quarantine can be
steep.}\label{jail-time-or-a-569000-fine-the-price-of-breaking-quarantine-can-be-steep}}

Image

The U.S.-Canada border in Lansdowne, Ontario, in March. Though the
Canadian border is closed to the United States, a loophole allows
Americans to travel to and from Alaska, with caveats.Credit...Lars
Hagberg/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

As countries work to contain fresh coronavirus outbreaks, some are
making good on threats of heavy fines and even jail time for those who
breach quarantine rules or border restrictions.

In the latest example,
\href{https://www.npr.org/2020/08/25/905847150/american-man-accused-of-breaking-canadas-covid-19-rules-faces-560-000-fine}{a
Kentucky man accused of breaking Canadian quarantine rules} faces six
months in prison, a \$569,000 fine or perhaps both.

The man, John Pennington, was fined about \$900 by the police in late
June, after staff members at an Alberta hotel grew suspicious that he
was breaking the province's quarantine rules. The police later charged
him with doing just that, after finding him at Sulphur Mountain, a
tourist attraction.

Though the Canadian border is closed to the United States, a loophole
allows Americans to travel to and from Alaska, providing they use a
direct route, quarantine at hotels and refrain from visiting national
parks, leisure sites or tourist attractions.

Separately, a 28-year-old woman in Australia was
\href{https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-08-25/woman-who-snuck-into-wa-on-truck-handed-six-month-jail-sentence/12592832}{sentenced
to six months in jail on Tuesday} after she hid in the back of a truck
on a cross-country journey of more than 1,800 miles from the state of
Victoria, a coronavirus hot spot, to Western Australia. The police said
that she was picked up by her partner at a gas station.

The woman had traveled to Victoria to care for her sister and had
received an exemption to fly back to Western Australia, which has closed
its borders to travelers, her lawyer told a court. But the exemption did
not apply to travel by road, and she pleaded guilty to breaking the
order.

Western Australia's pandemic rules include a 14-day mandatory quarantine
for most travelers in a hotel, and the penalties for breaking them range
from prison terms as long as 12 months to as much as \$35,000 in fines.

Australia has had 549 deaths and more than 25,000 confirmed cases as of
Wednesday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{according
to a Times database}. Many of its state borders are closed because of
the recent outbreak in Victoria, where the state capital, Melbourne,
remains under lockdown.

Victoria's latest outbreak has been linked to breaches in a quarantine
hotel, but people around the country have been trying to circumvent
virus-related restrictions anyway.

Last month, four men in their 20s were found hiding on an interstate
freight train heading from Melbourne to Perth, on the country's west
coast. The police have also
\href{https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-08-11/coronavirus-queensland-border-bubble-nsw-concerns/12541762}{issued
citations to travelers} from hot spots like Sydney for lying on border
declaration forms.

Global ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{two-more-cases-of-reinfection-were-reported-this-time-in-europe}{%
\subsection{Two more cases of reinfection were reported, this time in
Europe.}\label{two-more-cases-of-reinfection-were-reported-this-time-in-europe}}

Image

Passengers queued to be screened for Covid-19 at a testing station set
up at Schiphol airport, near Amsterdam, on Aug. 25.Credit...Robin Van
Lonkhuijsen/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Two more cases of reinfection with the coronavirus were reported in
Europe on Tuesday, a day after a 33-year-old man in Hong Kong was
confirmed to have been infected a second time.

In all three cases, researchers compared genetic material from both
rounds of infection and confirmed that the patients were not just
carrying remnants of dead virus left over from the first illness.

The new cases were announced by European researchers. The data have not
been published in any form as yet.

Experts told The Times on Monday that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/health/coronavirus-reinfection.html}{reinfections
with the virus are not surprising}, though not believed to be common. As
with most other respiratory viruses, including common-cold coronaviruses
and influenza, one bout with the new coronavirus may provoke an immune
response that may not prevent a second infection --- but nonetheless is
likely to mute symptoms the second time around.

One new reinfection case was an older person in the Netherlands with a
weakened immune system, researchers said. The other patient, in Belgium,
was a woman who had only mild symptoms in March and became infected
again in June.

The man in Hong Kong, too, had only mild symptoms and did not develop
detectable antibodies after the first infection. Even so, he had no
symptoms at all the second time and his case was found only by routine
screening at an airport. His case suggests that even people who did not
produce a strong antibody response to an initial case may be protected
from becoming seriously ill if exposed to the virus again, experts have
said.

Some news reports have speculated that the cases raise questions about
the effectiveness of vaccines for preventing coronavirus infection. But
experts have said the opposite: Vaccines can be designed to elicit
immunity that's stronger and longer lasting than that resulting from
natural infection.

``In order to provide herd immunity, a potent vaccine is needed to
induce immunity that prevents both reinfection and disease,'' Akiko
Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University, told The Times on Monday.

In other news from around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In \textbf{South Korea}, doctors in the Seoul metropolitan area on
  Wednesday began a three-day strike over government plans to increase
  the number of medical students by 4,000 over the next decade. The
  government says that the growth would help the country deal with
  crises like the coronavirus pandemic, but doctors argue that they are
  already operating in a cutthroat competition --- and that the
  government should offer financial incentives for young doctors to open
  shop in rural areas. President Moon Jae-in on Wednesday ordered his
  government to ``deal sternly with'' the doctors on strike through a
  ``principled enforcement of law.''
\item
  As \textbf{Hong Kong} on Tuesday announced plans to begin easing its
  social-distancing rules, the city's leader, Carrie Lam, said that
  criticism by health experts of a new, Beijing-backed coronavirus
  testing program was a ``politically calculated'' effort to smear the
  Chinese government. Some of those experts say the plan is a waste of
  resources, while activists fear it could lead to the harvesting of DNA
  samples for China's surveillance apparatus, accusations that local
  officials deny.
\item
  The Chinese government has imposed a sweeping lockdown across
  \textbf{the Xinjiang region in western China}, penning in millions of
  people as part of what officials describe as an effort to fight a
  resurgence of the coronavirus. But many residents
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/world/asia/china-xinjiang-covid.html}{accuse
  the government of acting too harshly}, reviving concerns about
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/11/16/world/asia/china-xinjiang-documents.html}{human
  rights abuses in Xinjiang}. The Chinese government has spent years
  perfecting
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/22/world/asia/china-surveillance-xinjiang.html}{a
  system of mass surveillance and control} in the region and has long
  imposed
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/28/world/asia/china-xinjiang-children-boarding-schools.html}{draconian
  social rules} on the region's largely Muslim ethnic minority groups,
  who make up about half the population.
\item
  Two \textbf{Irish political leaders} have resigned after a furor, now
  known as ``GolfGate,'' over their attendance at a dinner organized by
  the Golf Society of the country's legislature. The gathering took
  place a day after the government tightened coronavirus restrictions to
  combat a spike in infections, and has sparked a backlash that has also
  threatened the jobs of other public figures, including the European
  Union's trade commissioner, Phil Hogan.
\item
  \textbf{Uganda} has recalled its ambassador to Denmark as well as her
  deputy after allegations that they were plotting to steal funds
  allocated to deal with the pandemic. The ambassador, Nimisha Madhvani,
  and her deputy, Elly Kamahungye,
  \href{https://twitter.com/kaysafi1/status/1297938862711484416}{were
  recorded} devising ways to share the money along with other embassy
  staff members. Uganda's Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the
  allegations ``grave'' and said it would carry out a ``thorough
  investigation'' into the matter.
\end{itemize}

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{protesters-against-virus-restrictions-pour-into-the-idaho-state-capitol}{%
\subsection{Protesters against virus restrictions pour into the Idaho
State
Capitol.}\label{protesters-against-virus-restrictions-pour-into-the-idaho-state-capitol}}

Image

Spectators jam the House judiciary committee room on Monday, hoping that
they could testify about proposed bills.Credit...Katherine Jones/Idaho
Statesman, via Associated Press

Conservative protesters flooded the Idaho State Capitol in Boise this
week, many of them without wearing masks, to express anger and
frustration during a special legislative session called to address
voting and liability laws amid the pandemic.

Among the protesters was Ammon Bundy, once the leader of an armed
takeover of an Oregon wildlife refuge, who was arrested by Idaho State
Police along with two other people for trespassing Tuesday amid protests
over coronavirus regulations.

The discontent in Idaho reflects a strong libertarian streak in the
rural West. Mr. Bundy and others, including some Idaho public officials,
have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/us/coronavirus-idaho-bundy-patriot.html}{complained
for months} about the efforts of state leaders like Gov. Brad Little, a
Republican, to rein in the spread of the virus with stay-at-home orders
and restrictions on businesses.

``The Idaho people are more than capable of keeping themselves safe,''
Mr. Bundy told lawmakers on Monday, according to
\href{https://www.idahopress.com/eyeonboise/house-judiciary-hears-testimony-on-liability-bills/article_361ae9cf-dbdf-531c-bb3a-29a0c8ffd587.html}{a
report} in The Idaho Press. ``They are more than capable of driving the
greatest economy that any state has enjoyed.''

On Tuesday Mr. Bundy and two others refused to leave an auditorium at
the Idaho state capital, long after the hearing had finished, according
to a spokeswoman for the Idaho State Police. Mr. Bundy refused to stand
so police handcuffed him and
\href{https://www.idahopress.com/news/local/ammon-bundy-arrested-at-idaho-capitol-removed-from-lincoln-auditorium/article_7dbf7efa-f703-5fc2-b4e9-477f1a2dbe87.html}{wheeled
him out}in a chair, she said. Early in the afternoon Mr. Bundy
\href{https://www.idahopress.com/news/local/ammon-bundy-arrested-at-idaho-capitol-removed-from-lincoln-auditorium/article_7dbf7efa-f703-5fc2-b4e9-477f1a2dbe87.html}{told
the Idaho Press} he was going to remain seated in protest of the removal
of ``citizen journalists'' from a hearing; at least one worked for a
libertarian organization.

On Monday police also scuffled with protesters, who shattered a glass
door at the State Capitol according to The Idaho Statesman.

Idaho, like many states, saw a sharp increase in new coronavirus cases
starting around mid-June. Daily reports of new cases have receded a bit
since then, but remain
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{much
higher} than the figures reported in the spring.

Elsewhere in the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said Tuesday that \textbf{New York} will now
  require travelers from Guam
  \href{https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory}{to
  quarantine for 14 days, an addition to a list of 28 states} as well as
  Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
  \textbf{\href{https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/status/1298283972867379201}{New
  Jersey}} also said travelers from those 31 places were subject to a
  14-day quarantine, though
  \href{https://covid19.nj.gov/faqs/nj-information/travel-and-transportation/which-states-are-on-the-travel-advisory-list-are-there-travel-restrictions-to-or-from-new-jersey}{the
  state has said compliance is voluntary} but expected. Alaska, Arizona,
  Delaware, Maryland and Montana were removed in the weekly update.
\item
  In \textbf{New York City}, Sheriff Joseph Fucito on Tuesday said
  officials are considering boarding long-haul buses before passengers
  disembark at bus terminals, as part of a move
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-quarantine-checkpoints.html}{by
  the city to promote compliance} with the state's 14-day quarantine
  requirement for many travelers. In an interview, Mr. Fucito said
  officials would randomly target buses whose public schedules indicate
  they are coming from places on the state's list. Upon the buses'
  arrival, but before passengers can offload, officials would board the
  bus and
  \href{https://forms.ny.gov/s3/Welcome-to-New-York-State-Traveler-Health-Form}{ask
  riders to fill out the state's required} travel form with their
  contact information and quarantine plans.
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/25/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/american-airlines-plans-to-furlough-19000-workers}{American
  Airlines}} plans to furlough 19,000 employees this fall when
  restrictions on job cuts that airlines agreed to in exchange for
  federal aid end on Oct. 1. This brings the total number of employees
  cut to 40,000 when combined with employees who have taken buyouts or
  agreed to long-term leave. In a letter to employees, the top two
  executives blamed Congress for not providing enough aid to the airline
  industry.
\item
  American Airlines also received approval from the Environmental
  Protection Agency to use a new cleaning spray on its planes that
  purports to kill coronaviruses on surfaces for up to seven days. The
  agency described the product, Allied BioScience's
  \textbf{SurfaceWise2}, as groundbreaking and a ``first-ever
  long-lasting antiviral product.'' American said it would start using
  SurfaceWise2 in the coming months.
\item
  \textbf{Mississippi} reported 67 new deaths and \textbf{Montana}
  reported 6 new fatalities, each setting single-day state records.
\item
  \textbf{Miami-Dade County, Fla.,} which has been hit hard by the
  virus, will allow indoor restaurant dining starting Monday, Mayor
  Carlos Gimenez said Tuesday. The decision was made after consulting
  with restaurant owners, the White House coronavirus task force and
  local medical experts, he said.
  \href{http://www.miamidade.gov/information/library/2020-08-25-new-normal-dashboard.pdf}{The
  county's positivity rate has been just under 10 percent for about a
  week}, which is still higher than the 5 percent that Mr. Gimenez had
  said would be the target for more widespread reopening. Restaurant
  capacity will be capped at 50 percent, with no more than six people at
  a table. Tables will be spaced, doors must be kept open --- windows
  too, if possible --- and the air-conditioning must run all the time.
  Masks will be required for diners until they are served water and any
  time they get up from the table. Mr. Gimenez also said he does not
  plan to close beaches for Labor Day, as the county did for the Fourth
  of July. His administration plans to deploy more personnel to enforce
  coronavirus rules on the beaches and elsewhere in the county during
  the holiday weekend, he said. (An earlier version of this item
  misidentified the approaching holiday as Memorial Day.)
\item
  Most children born in \textbf{New Jersey} would be entitled
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/nyregion/baby-bond-nj.html}{to
  a \$1,000 state-financed nest egg under a proposal} that Gov. Philip
  D. Murphy said Tuesday could narrow a widening wealth gap in the U.S.,
  where the average white family has seven times the wealth of the
  average Black family. The move would be a small but tangible step, the
  governor said, toward confronting inequities that have been brought
  into particularly stark relief by the pandemic: Black and Latino
  people have died and lost jobs at far higher rates than white people.
  The State Legislature recently approved nearly
  \href{https://www.njspotlight.com/2020/07/nj-debt-covid-19-bond-sales-could-add-big-amount-to-state-borrowing-totals/}{\$10
  billion in bond debt} to cover the extraordinary costs created by the
  pandemic and a related drop in tax revenue.

  Mr. Murphy, who is again proposing a so-called millionaire's tax, said
  the baby-bond initiative would be coupled with \$1.2 billion in cuts
  across state agencies. He also proposed raising cigarette taxes to
  \$4.35 a pack, the highest in the nation; and increasing sales taxes
  on boats, yachts and firearms, among other measures.
\item
  Given the complexity of \textbf{state tax laws}, accountants are
  advising their clients
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/business/coronavirus-nonresident-state-taxes.html}{to
  track the number of days} they spend working out of state. Some states
  impose income tax on people who work there for as little as a single
  day.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{a-february-conference-in-boston-led-to-the-infection-of-tens-of-thousands-around-the-world-a-study-shows}{%
\subsection{A February conference in Boston led to the infection of tens
of thousands around the world, a study
shows.}\label{a-february-conference-in-boston-led-to-the-infection-of-tens-of-thousands-around-the-world-a-study-shows}}

Image

The Marriott-Long Wharf hotel in Boston.Credit...Cody O'Loughlin for The
New York Times

Scientists have found that a conference in Boston in late February
triggered a gigantic spread of the virus. It ultimately may have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/us/coronavirus-biogen-boston-superspreader.html}{led
to the infection} of tens of thousands of people both in the United
States and abroad.

The finding emerged from a large study of the outbreak in the Boston
area, which the authors
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.08.23.20178236v1}{posted
online} on Tuesday but has not yet been published in a scientific
journal.

Researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology analyzed the genomes of coronavirus samples
taken from 772 people diagnosed with Covid-19 between January and May.
They collected the virus from samples taken at hospitals, nursing homes,
homeless shelters and other locations in the Boston area.

The researchers found, by analyzing variations in samples of the
coronavirus, that it was introduced more than 80 times to the region ---
mostly from Europe, and coming either directly to Boston or indirectly
through other parts of the northeastern United States. Most of these
introductions petered out without much spread.

But a conference hosted by the biotech company Biogen on Feb. 26 and 27
fueled the spread of one strain of the virus, which soon became very
common around Boston. The researchers were able to trace it later to
other states and to countries such as Singapore and Australia.

Dr. Jacob Lemieux, the first author of the study and a physician at
Massachusetts General Hospital, said in an interview that it was just a
matter of bad luck that someone with the virus spent time in a place
that could promote its spread --- and that the infected people promptly
boarded airplanes to spread the virus further.

``It's the play of chance,'' said Dr. Lemieux. ``If it hadn't been this
conference, it would have been another event.''

\hypertarget{send-children-to-school-democrats-are-more-reluctant-than-republicans-a-survey-finds}{%
\subsection{Send children to school? Democrats are more reluctant than
Republicans, a survey
finds.}\label{send-children-to-school-democrats-are-more-reluctant-than-republicans-a-survey-finds}}

Image

Students arriving for their first day of classes at Little Rock Central
High School in Little Rock, Ark., on Monday.Credit...Tommy Metthe/The
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, via Associated Press

Parents as a whole are stressed and anxious about the virus and the
school year. But there's a large political divide,
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/data-nyt-survey-with-morning-consult/6868859b7322727d/full.pdf}{a
new survey for The New York Times shows}. Democrats are more reluctant
to send their children to school than Republicans are, and are more
worried about their families becoming infected.

Republicans are also more likely to say teachers should work in person,
according to the survey, which was administered by Morning Consult to a
nationally representative sample of 1,081 parents from Aug. 4 to Aug. 8.

President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/trump-schools-reopen.html}{made
school reopenings a contentious issue} when, in July, he demanded that
schools open, even as cases were rising. It ended up alienating many
teachers and parents, who said he wasn't doing what was necessary to
reopen safely. But it did not turn away his loyal supporters, the new
data indicates.

When parents who approve of the job Mr. Trump is doing were asked
whether they had considered keeping their child home from school for
health and safety reasons, even if it reopened, 29 percent said they had
considered it. Among parents who disapprove of Mr. Trump, 45 percent
considered keeping their children home.

There was a similar divide when parents were asked whether teachers
should be expected to return to school in person --- a question that has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/teacher-union-school-reopening-coronavirus.html}{catalyzed
teachers' unions} and in some cases, divided teachers, administrators
and parents. Over all, one-quarter of parents said teachers should be
strongly encouraged to return, two-thirds said they should be able to do
their jobs virtually, and the rest weren't sure.

Republican parents were nearly three times as likely as Democrats to say
teachers should be considered essential workers who needed to return to
school. Thirty-six percent of Republicans said that, compared with 13
percent of Democrats.

\hypertarget{flu-season-testing-delays-in-the-us-could-make-it-easier-for-the-virus-to-spread-undetected}{%
\subsection{Flu-season testing delays in the U.S. could make it easier
for the virus to spread
undetected.}\label{flu-season-testing-delays-in-the-us-could-make-it-easier-for-the-virus-to-spread-undetected}}

Image

Advertisements for free flu shots in Manhattan last week.Credit...Bryan
R. Smith/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Come fall, the rise of influenza and other seasonal respiratory
infections
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/health/coronavirus-flu-testing.html}{could
exacerbate already staggering delays in coronavirus testing}, making it
easier for the virus to spread unnoticed, experts said.

In typical years, doctors often don't test for flu, simply assuming that
patients with coughs, fevers and fatigue during the winter months are
probably carrying the highly infectious virus. But this year, with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/05/well/covid-19-symptoms.html}{coronavirus
bringing similar symptoms}, doctors will need to test for both viruses
to diagnose their patients, further straining supply shortages.

Testing for individual viruses poses many challenges for doctors and
laboratory workers already fighting their way through
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/virus-testing-delays.html}{supply
shortages}. Several of these tests use similar machines and chemicals,
and require handling and processing by trained personnel.

Some manufacturers have begun making tests that can screen for several
pathogens at once. But these combo tests are expensive and will likely
make up only a small fraction of the market.

``The flu season is a bit of a ticking time bomb,'' said Amanda
Harrington, the medical director of microbiology at Loyola University
Medical Center. ``We are all waiting and trying to prepare as best we
can.''

Flu
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/health/flu-aerosols-coronavirus.html}{viruses}
and coronaviruses
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/flu/symptoms/flu-vs-covid19.htm}{differ} in
many ways, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/health/coronavirus-superspreading-contagion.html}{how
they spread}, how long they linger in the body and the groups they
affect
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/health/coronavirus-immune-system.html}{most
severely}. Food and Drug Administration-approved antivirals and vaccines
exist for the flu, but no such treatments exist for the coronavirus,
which has killed at least 812,000 people worldwide in less than a year,
according to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{a
Times database}.

Being infected with one virus doesn't preclude contracting the other.
And researchers also don't yet know how risky it is for a person to
\href{https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(20)31052-7/fulltext}{harbor
both viruses at the same time}.

Those differences make it essential to tease the two pathogens apart, as
well as to rule out other common winter infections like respiratory
syncytial virus, or R.S.V., which
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/high-risk/index.html}{hits the very young
and very old especially hard}.

But many flu and R.S.V. tests vanished from the market this spring as
the companies that make them rapidly pivoted to address the coronavirus.

\hypertarget{after-a-sharp-case-rise-in-danbury-conn-the-mayor-says-we-want-to-make-sure-that-we-can-slow-the-spread}{%
\subsection{After a sharp case rise in Danbury, Conn., the mayor says
`we want to make sure that we can slow the
spread.'}\label{after-a-sharp-case-rise-in-danbury-conn-the-mayor-says-we-want-to-make-sure-that-we-can-slow-the-spread}}

Image

Danbury, Conn., a city of about 84,000 people near the New York border,
saw 178 new cases reported there in the first 20 days of August, more
than quadruple the figure for the prior two weeks. Credit...Stephanie
Keith for The New York Times

Facing an uptick in cases, the city of Danbury, Conn., has closed public
boat launches to prevent the spread of the virus among boaters on a
popular lake, Mayor Mark Boughton said on Tuesday.

Connecticut has also closed a boat ramp it operates nearby, in an effort
to curb parties held on the water or in nearby parking lots, Gov. Ned
Lamont said at a news conference with the mayor.

``We want to make sure that we can slow the spread,'' Mr. Boughton said.

On Friday, officials in Connecticut issued a public health warning for
Danbury, a city of about 84,000 people near the New York border, that
urged residents to stay home when possible and limit gatherings. The
move came after 178 new cases were reported in the city in the first 20
days of August, more than quadruple the figure for the prior two weeks.

In response, Danbury's public schools will reopen with remote learning
on Sept. 8 and will re-evaluate on Oct. 1 whether to allow some
in-person learning.

So far, public health officials have linked the cases to
\href{https://portal.ct.gov/Coronavirus/Travel}{domestic and
international travel}, live services held at places of worship and
contact on athletic fields, Mr. Boughton said. They also remained
concerned over large family gatherings. As of Tuesday, travelers to
\href{https://twitter.com/GovNedLamont/status/1298290383408041986}{Connecticut}
are now required to quarantine for 14 days if they are coming from Guam,
as well \href{https://portal.ct.gov/Coronavirus/Travel}{as dozens of
states and two other territories}.

Mr. Lamont said that the uptick had not spread to parts of Connecticut
beyond Danbury.

A state legislator, David Arconti, said that cases appeared to have
risen in neighborhoods of Danbury that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/nyregion/isaias-storm-power-outages.html}{lost
power for days after Tropical Storm Isaias} ripped through the New York
region. He and other officials were exploring a possible connection, he
said.

Mr. Lamont said the state would monitor other municipalities that had
been hard hit by power outages to see if they saw an uptick similar to
Danbury's.

\hypertarget{a-uk-program-splits-the-check-with-patrons-in-restaurants-but-it-might-not-be-enough-to-save-the-industry}{%
\subsection{A U.K. program splits the check with patrons in restaurants,
but it might not be enough to save the
industry.}\label{a-uk-program-splits-the-check-with-patrons-in-restaurants-but-it-might-not-be-enough-to-save-the-industry}}

Image

Outside the Prince Edward Theatre in London's Soho which has remained
closed since March due to the virus outbreak.Credit...Alexander Ingram
for The New York Times

When the British government told people they no longer had to stay home,
it needed a convincing pitch to get everyone back outside and,
crucially, spending money --- especially in restaurants.

The answer: half-price food. For the month of August, the government has
been paying for a 50 percent discount on all meals eaten in restaurants,
pubs or cafes, up to 10 pounds (\$13) per person, on Mondays, Tuesdays
and Wednesdays.

It's a discount that Britons have taken up with relish.

In the first three weeks of the program,
\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/over-64-million-meals-claimed-for-as-eat-out-to-help-out-enters-fourth-week}{64
million meals} --- enough for nearly the entire British population of
about 67 million --- were eaten using the discount, costing the
government £336 million (\$441 million).

On the first day, Aug. 3, food sales rose 100 percent compared with the
previous Monday,
\href{https://www.cga.co.uk/2020/08/14/eat-out-to-help-out-helps-food-sales-surge-by-a-third-week-on-week/}{according
to CGA}, a consultancy firm.

But restaurant industry workers worry whether a temporary discount can
trigger a sustainable recovery. If diners retreat back to their homes
once it's too cold to dine outdoors
or\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/business/economy/britain-jobs-plan-layoffs.html}{unemployment
rises as the furlough program ends in October}, what then?

After spending months warning of the dangers of indoor public spaces,
the government now has to persuade people that it's safe to return to
their previous habits. Even if the customers want to keep coming back,
restaurants face a lot of uncertainty.

Although
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{new
daily cases have been declining}, with a seven-day average of 1,060 as
of Monday, the economy in
Britain\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/12/business/britain-economy-recession-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{fared
worse than any other in Europe} during the second quarter of the year,
because of a longer lockdown period and heavy reliance on consumer
spending.

Half of Britain's restaurants are still closed and across the
hospitality industry, businesses that are open are making only about 70
percent of their pre-pandemic revenue.

And while the program can help change consumer behavior, it doesn't
address how each establishment will make up for reduced capacity because
of social distancing measures, or what will happen when it's too cold to
dine outside.

``Obviously, we don't live in California or Dubai, we live in the
U.K.,'' said David Williams, co-owner of Baltic Market, a collection of
street food and drinks vendors in Liverpool. ``So there's a finite
amount of time that you want to eat a bowl of pasta outside.''

\hypertarget{at-the-republican-convention-trump-and-his-allies-engage-in-revisionism-on-the-virus}{%
\subsection{At the Republican convention, Trump and his allies engage in
revisionism on the
virus.}\label{at-the-republican-convention-trump-and-his-allies-engage-in-revisionism-on-the-virus}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/us/politics/24repubs-ledeall-top-copy/24repubs-ledeall-top-copy-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v4.jpg}

President Trump and his political allies
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/politics/republican-convention-recap.html}{mounted
a fierce and misleading defense of his political record} on the first
night of the Republican convention on Monday, while unleashing a barrage
of attacks on Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the Democratic Party that were
unrelenting in their bleakness.

Hours after Republican delegates formally nominated Mr. Trump for a
second term, the president and his party made plain that they intended
to engage in sweeping revisionism about Mr. Trump's management of the
coronavirus pandemic, his record on race relations and much else.

A team of New York Times reporters followed the developments and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/24/us/rnc-fact-check}{fact-checked
the speakers}, providing context and explanation.

At times, the speakers and prerecorded videos appeared to be describing
an alternate reality: one in which the nation was not nearing 180,000
deaths from the coronavirus; in which Mr. Trump had not consistently
ignored serious warnings about the disease; and in which someone other
than Mr. Trump had presided over an economy that began crumbling in the
spring.

Donald Trump Jr., the president's son, praised his father's management
of the pandemic in one of several segments asserting an unsupported
narrative that the president had been a sturdy leader in a crisis even
as polls show Americans believe he has handled the pandemic poorly.

``As the virus began to spread, the president acted quickly and ensured
ventilators got to hospitals that needed them most,'' the president's
son said, making no mention of the millions of Americans sickened and
killed or the complaints from governors that they were not receiving the
necessary equipment. ``There is more work to do, but there is light at
the end of the tunnel.''

Another defense of Mr. Trump's management of the pandemic took the form
of a video that criticized the news media, Democrats and the World
Health Organization, and presented a greatly distorted version of Mr.
Trump's record, casting him as a decisive leader against Democrats who
had minimized the threat of the disease. The video featured three clips
of Democratic governors, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York,
praising Mr. Trump in the spring, when state executives were pleading
with the federal government for help and taking exceptional pains to
stay on the president's good side.

Mr. Trump's first appearance in the evening program came in a brief
segment that showed him at the White House interacting with frontline
workers, who related their experiences in the health crisis. Mr. Trump
largely deferred to the other speakers and prompted them to make
comments --- ``Please, go ahead,'' he said repeatedly --- though he
interjected his own commentary about the drug hydroxychloroquine, which
the president had promoted aggressively as a remedy for the coronavirus
despite no consensus among doctors that it was effective.

\hypertarget{heres-how-spain-has-become-a-new-virus-hot-spot}{%
\subsection{Here's how Spain has become a new virus hot
spot.}\label{heres-how-spain-has-become-a-new-virus-hot-spot}}

Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez of Spain announced on Tuesday that at least
2,000 troops could be deployed to track local coronavirus outbreaks, as
the country faces one of Europe's largest surges in infections in recent
days.

In
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/briefing/republican-convention-wisconsin-jerry-falwell-your-tuesday-briefing.html}{Tuesday's
edition of the Morning newsletter}, David Leonhardt examined how Spain
has, like the United States, become one of the few rich countries
suffering a major outbreak. He writes:

\begin{quote}
Adjusted for population, Spain's outbreak has even surpassed the U.S.
outbreak over the last few days. How has it happened? Health experts are
still trying to figure that out. But some of the early answers may sound
familiar to Americans.

\textbf{Lack of a clear national message.} Spain's prime minister ---
Pedro Sánchez, of the Socialist Workers' Party --- has not promoted
medical disinformation, as President Trump has. Yet Sánchez has recently
handed back control of virus policy to regional governments, instead of
continuing to provide clear leadership about how people should behave.

\textbf{Premature reopening.} Spanish officials, like their American
counterparts, made the mistake of thinking they could help the economy
by prioritizing it over public health. Bars and nightclubs reopened.
British tourists --- a major source of revenue --- were allowed to
travel to Spain without restriction.

In truth, the only way to help the economy is to control the virus.

\textbf{Not enough testing and contact tracing.} The shortages have made
it ``difficult for health authorities to identify and isolate potential
virus carriers,''
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/spain-caught-off-guard-by-resurgent-coronavirus-11598194801}{according
to The Wall Street Journal}.

As I've written before, there is a set of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-us.html}{consistent
lessons from around the world about how to beat back the virus}: Mass
testing. Rapid quarantines, contact tracing and, when necessary,
lockdowns. Limited social gatherings, especially indoors. Widespread
mask wearing.
\end{quote}

Image

Credit...By The New York Times \textbar{} Sources: Johns Hopkins
University and World Bank

\begin{quote}
After taking these steps, many countries, including Canada, Australia
and much of Europe and Asia, have the virus under control. Spain itself
followed this strategy in the spring and also sharply reduced new cases
(as you can see in the chart above) --- before lifting its state of
emergency on June 21 and reopening less carefully than its neighbors.

Since then, it has joined the U.S. as a classic exception that proves
the rule.
\end{quote}

\hypertarget{the-university-of-alabama-reported-hundreds-of-cases-of-the-virus-after-classes-resumed-last-week}{%
\subsection{The University of Alabama reported hundreds of cases of the
virus after classes resumed last
week.}\label{the-university-of-alabama-reported-hundreds-of-cases-of-the-virus-after-classes-resumed-last-week}}

Image

A coronavirus testing site at the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.Credit...Steve Wood/UAB

Two colleges where classes have started said they had identified new
cases among students. Officials at the University of Alabama ****
\href{https://uasystem.edu/covid-19-dashboard?0}{said} that 531 cases
had been identified among students, faculty and staff on its Tuscaloosa
campus since
\href{https://www.al.com/news/2020/08/university-of-alabama-reports-more-than-500-confirmed-covid-19-cases.html?outputType=amp\&__twitter_impression=true}{classes
resumed} Wednesday. The university, which is holding
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/business/alabama-uab-coronavirus-tests.html}{in-person
classes}, said that other campuses in its system had reported a total of
35 cases over the same period. The mayor of Tuscaloosa ordered the
city's bars to close for two weeks to help tamp down the outbreak.

The virus has been on the rise in Tuscaloosa. Over the last seven days,
the state has reported an average of 36 new cases a day per 100,000
people, according to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York Times database}. Statewide, cases have been decreasing after a
spike earlier this summer.

The University of Southern California, which is holding online classes
but giving students limited access to campus, said it had
\href{https://coronavirus.usc.edu/2020/08/24/8-24-community-health-advisory-covid-19-cases-in-off-campus-residences/}{identified
43 new cases}in the past week, all of them related to ``off-campus
living environments.'' The university, where classes began Aug. 17,
called it ``an alarming increase'' and said that more than 100 students
were under a two-week quarantine because of exposure to the virus. It
warned students that ``every surface, every interaction where you share
close contact or remove your face covering, can pose a risk to yourself
and your friends.''

\hypertarget{feel-the-urge-to-scream-maybe-these-zombies-can-help}{%
\subsection{Feel the urge to scream? Maybe these zombies can
help.}\label{feel-the-urge-to-scream-maybe-these-zombies-can-help}}

Image

A participant inside a mock coffin during a horror show in Tokyo on
Saturday.Credit...Issei Kato/Reuters

Many people feel trapped by the coronavirus pandemic. In Japan, some are
distracting themselves by screaming inside closed caskets.

During 15-minute shows performed in Tokyo over the weekend, thrill
seekers shrieked and trembled in glass caskets as they listened to ghost
stories and the roar of chain saws. With nowhere to run, they were
menaced by zombies, poked with rubber hands and splashed with water, all
for less than \$10 in admission.

The event was organized by Kowagarasetai, a horror event production
company whose name means ``Scare Squad.'' But
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-japan-coffins/covid-19-scary-japan-group-offers-coffins-chainsaws-for-stress-relief-idUSKBN25I08Z}{some
customers said} they actually left feeling more relaxed.

The coffins are a better place to scream than at Japanese theme parks,
which have encouraged visitors to keep their mouths shut on roller
coasters to prevent virus transmission through droplets. (``Please
scream inside your heart,'' the Fuji-Q Highland amusement park suggested
in June in a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PMm5QVZ6QeY\&feature=emb_title}{video
demonstration} by two of its executives, who
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/reopened-theme-parks-ban-screaming-on-roller-coasters-riders-are-howling-11594222278?st=r6pu4qsoqqsfzlu}{inspired
social media users} to try the ``serious face challenge'' on their own
roller coaster rides.)

Kenta Iwana, founder of Kowagarasetai, said he wanted to give people a
way to express themselves without holding back.

``There are no places to scream,'' Mr. Iwana, 25,
\href{https://edition.cnn.com/travel/article/tokyo-drive-in-haunted-house-kowagarasetai/index.html}{told
Agence France-Presse} this summer as he introduced another one of his
socially distanced productions, a drive-in haunted house. In addition to
providing people with an emotional outlet, he said, his company creates
job opportunities for performers who normally work at theme parks.

Japan, which has been fighting a resurgence of the virus in recent
weeks, reported 740 new cases nationwide on Sunday, including 212 in
Tokyo.

Reporting was contributed by Sarah Almukhtar, Gillian R. Brassil,
Alexander Burns, Stephen Castle, Choe Sang-Hun, Abdi Latif Dahir,
Richard Faussett, Sheri Fink, Michael Gold, Jenny Gross, Javier C.
Hernández, Shawn Hubler, Mike Ives, Annie Karni, Isabella Kwai, David
Leonhardt, Apoorva Mandavilli, Jonathan Martin, Tiffany May, Patricia
Mazzei, Claire Cain Miller, Heather Murphy, Eshe Nelson, Amelia
Nierenberg, Adam Pasick, Elian Peltier, Monika Pronczuk, Dana
Rubinstein, Eliza Shapiro, Mitch Smith, Eileen Sullivan, Katie Thomas,
Tracey Tully, Katherine J. Wu and Elaine Yu, Carl Zimmer.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
