Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Halts TV Advertising
as He Struggles in Polls Against Biden

\url{https://nyti.ms/30hSJlr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-halts-tv-advertising-as-he-struggles-in-polls-against-biden}{%
\section{Trump Halts TV Advertising as He Struggles in Polls Against
Biden}\label{trump-halts-tv-advertising-as-he-struggles-in-polls-against-biden}}

The six-day pause was ordered by the president's new campaign manager,
Bill Stepien.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31trump-campaign/merlin_175168083_0aa05b3b-7172-4c44-99e3-5ac03eec96ea-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick Corasaniti},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Since Joseph R. Biden Jr. became the presumptive Democratic nominee for
president in April, the Trump campaign has spent \$72 million in
television advertising attacking the former vice president, with ads
that veered rapidly on topics ranging from China to Mr. Biden's age to
policing policies. None significantly slowed Mr. Biden's rising poll
numbers.

On Tuesday, the messaging behemoth that has been the Trump campaign
ground to a halt, as it temporarily suspended all television advertising
nationwide in order to review its strategy under its new campaign
manager, Bill Stepien.

While the pause will likely be short-lived --- in a
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1289275311272521728}{tweet
on Friday afternoon}, the president said that they would be launching
``a new ad campaign'' on Monday --- the sudden decision is yet another
sign that the campaign is reckoning with a yawning deficit in
battleground state polling and an inability to find a defining message
against Mr. Biden.

President Trump on Friday made the decision to resume television ads on
Monday after a phone conversation with Mr. Stepien and Jason Miller, a
senior strategist on the campaign, to discuss their review. The first
ad, seeking to define Mr. Biden as both a failure and a tool of the
extreme left, was part of a national ad buy. But a campaign official
said the next round of advertising would focus specifically on states
that begin voting early.

However brief, such a halt is unusual within the final 100 days of a
presidential election, though it is unlikely that the six-day pause will
have a significant impact one way or another on the Trump campaign's
ability to persuade voters come November. And the campaign sought to
downplay its significance, tying it to the arrival of Mr. Stepien, who
took over from Brad Parscale earlier this month.

Campaign officials noted that in 2016, Mr. Trump had not run a single
television ad at this point in the race. But Mr. Trump's first campaign
was a shoestring operation, with little staff and minimal funds, while
his 2020 team is sprawling, with \$295 million in cash on hand and more
than 1,500 staff members in the field.

Indeed, the pause is noteworthy given the size of Mr. Trump's
advertising effort up till now: Since last January, the campaign has
spent \$202 million in television and digital advertising, according to
Advertising Analytics, an ad tracking firm. Mr. Biden, by comparison,
has spent about \$95 million over the same period.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

If anything, Mr. Trump's advertising spending has only increased
recently: Since early July his campaign has spent over \$30 million on
television and digital ads. Many of those ads sought to sow fear and
division about the racial justice protests around the country, and
several falsely stated Mr. Biden was in favor of defunding the police
(he has stated repeatedly that he is not).

The Trump campaign has been equally abundant in battleground states,
spending \$61 million since April across 11 states. It has also begun
advertising in states that were previously considered safe for
Democrats, like Minnesota, though it also has completely
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/michigan-trump-biden-2020.html}{stopped
advertising in Michigan}.

And even as the Trump campaign claims it is reassessing its messaging
strategy, it uploaded
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rEO2a4BfwQ}{a new ad to YouTube
on Friday morning} reiterating many of the messages it has been airing
all spring and summer.

Meanwhile, Mr. Trump's main super PAC, America First Action, remains on
the airwaves in four states, with \$5 million reserved in Pennsylvania,
North Carolina, Wisconsin and Arizona this week and next week. On
Friday, the PAC added \$860,000 to its buys in Pennsylvania and Arizona,
according to Advertising Analytics. A second group, Restoration PAC,
began a \$2.5 million two-week buy in Michigan this week.

The goal of the pause, officials said, was for Mr. Stepien to take a
look at what television shows the campaign was advertising on and what
time of day those ads were running, and then decide whether to tweak the
mix to make sure the advertisements were reaching the right voters.

Trump campaign officials have become concerned about when to spend the
bulk of their money --- **** they don't want to run out, but they don't
want to be left with more than they need after mid-October, when much of
early voting is already completed.

One Republican consultant close to the campaign said the best window for
spending was right after the convention, when it would be in a place to
go up and never have to come back down.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31trump-campaign-2/merlin_174370458_e2698af0-7ab7-4a15-a86d-d864ff718ac7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law, still signs off on every
large advertising expenditure, as he did when Mr. Parscale ran the
campaign. Mr. Kushner, a White House official said, agreed with the
temporary pause, arguing that it was beneficial to the president to have
fresh eyes looking at spending decisions.

Some former Trump officials said it was a good move to step back in the
middle of the summer, when there was still plenty of time to readjust.

``Considering the curveball Covid threw into the political landscape,
it's smart of the campaign to reassess what the most effective messaging
is and where and when to place their ad dollars,'' said Sean Spicer, the
former White House press secretary who ran communications for the
Republican National Committee in 2016.

But other Republican observers questioned the wisdom of going dark so
close to the election.

``It's too early to determine what impact the cancellation of TV has on
the Trump campaign, but any time your opponent is running ads with no
retaliation it can have significant impact,'' said Sig Rogich, a
Republican strategist from Nevada who worked on George H.W. Bush's
campaigns and advised Senator John McCain during his 2008 presidential
bid. He recalled a moment in the 1988 presidential race when the Bush
team spent an entire week between conventions as the only campaign on
air, helping to erase the lead of his opponent, Michael Dukakis.

But that was also before digital advertising became a major arm of a
campaign's messaging strategy, and the Trump campaign is still pouring
millions into digital ads each day. It has dozens of active ads on
Facebook, serving as both fund-raising ads and caustic attacks against
Mr. Biden. Over the past week, the Trump campaign spent nearly \$4.8
million on the platform --- \$575,000 on Wednesday alone, the most
recent day for which spending data is available.

Still, over all, the Trump campaign's hundreds of millions in
advertisements have sometimes seemed more of a show of force than a
targeted buy. The campaign spent
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/07/us/politics/bloomberg-trump-super-bowl-ad.html}{\$10
million on two ads} during the Super Bowl last year, and over \$30
million has gone toward national advertising, a tactic criticized by
some operatives as wasteful because it's paying for time in safe states
rather than targeted buys in battlegrounds.

Some observers also said Mr. Trump missed an opportunity to take
advantage of his incumbency and negatively define Mr. Biden as he was
emerging from the primaries. When former President Barack Obama spent
millions on ads attacking Mitt Romney during the summer of 2012, his
messaging was disciplined. The Trump campaign has not had a similar
focus.

``It's not just that the Trump campaign is behind, it's that they've
blown this historic opportunity to define an opponent, and its
extraordinary,'' said Stuart Stevens, a Republican strategist and former
senior adviser for Mr. Romney's campaign. ``They basically had the field
to themselves and they still couldn't score.''

And now the Biden campaign is moving to close the gap.

As Mr. Trump's campaign goes off the air, the Biden campaign has made
its biggest buys yet, targeting older voters in Nevada, Arizona,
Florida, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxT0IFdaaQc\&feature=youtu.be}{with
an ad} on Mr. Trump's response to the coronavirus. Mr. Biden has spent
\$21 million on television last week and this week, according to data
from Advertising Analytics, with the biggest share, \$3.3 million, going
to Florida.

Still, since taking over as campaign manager, Mr. Stepien has tried to
project confidence about the president's chances in November.

``We only need to win either Wisconsin or Michigan or Pennsylvania to
win this thing again,'' Mr. Stepien told reporters last week. Mr.
Stepien said he still saw the pick-up opportunities in New Hampshire and
Minnesota that he had hoped for before the pandemic shifted the race.

And though it has temporarily paused its advertising, the Trump campaign
still has more than \$146 million in television and radio ads booked
through November, a number that far outpaces the Biden campaign's. None
of those reservations have been altered or shifted yet as part of the
current review.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
