Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate}{Real Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}\$3 Million Homes in
California, Illinois and Maine

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jPaRLp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

What you Get

\hypertarget{3-million-homes-in-california-illinois-and-maine}{%
\section{\$3 Million Homes in California, Illinois and
Maine}\label{3-million-homes-in-california-illinois-and-maine}}

A midcentury-modern house in Brentwood, a 1910 home outside Chicago and
a 28-acre seasonal camp on Mount Desert Island.

By Julie Lasky

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/slideshow/2020/07/29/realestate/what-you-get-for-3-million.html}{}

\hypertarget{what-you-get-for-3-million}{%
\subsection{What You Get for \$3
Million}\label{what-you-get-for-3-million}}

24 Photos

View Slide Show â€º

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/realestate/29WYG-slide-Z9XY/29WYG-slide-Z9XY-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Brandon V. Photography

\hypertarget{los-angeles--2999-million}{%
\subsection{Los Angeles \textbar{} \$2.999
Million}\label{los-angeles--2999-million}}

\hypertarget{a-midcentury-modern-house-with-four-bedrooms-and-three-and-a-half-bathrooms-on-a-026-acre-lot}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{A midcentury-modern house with
four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms, on a 0.26-acre
lot}}{A midcentury-modern house with four bedrooms and three and a half bathrooms, on a 0.26-acre lot}}\label{a-midcentury-modern-house-with-four-bedrooms-and-three-and-a-half-bathrooms-on-a-026-acre-lot}}

The exterior of this house is familiar to many as that of ``The Golden
Girls,'' the NBC sitcom that ran from 1985 through 1992, about four
women sharing a Miami ranch house.

The actual property is more exotic. Custom designed in 1955 by a
Honolulu architecture firm for a lawyer and his wife, the house, in the
Brentwood neighborhood, was inspired by Hawaiian and Japanese midcentury
buildings. Beyond the unassuming facade, the interior has large, flowing
spaces divided by shoji screens, and it opens at the back into a giant
lanai.

It was the owners' enthusiasm for tropical plants that drew the
attention of location scouts because the landscaping evoked Miami, said
Rachelle Rosten, the listing agent, adding that the couple received a
``modest, one-time fee.'' After the first season, the exterior was
reproduced on a Hollywood lot.

The house is about 17 miles northwest of downtown, two miles southwest
of the UCLA campus and a mile and a half south of the Getty Center.
Following the recent deaths of the owners, it is being sold by a trust.

\textbf{Size:} 2,901 square feet

\textbf{Price per square foot:} \$1,034

\textbf{Indoors:} The entrance hall leads to a large, vaulted living
room with built-in cabinetry and a pale-brick fireplace wrapped by a
travertine hearth. The carpeting that covered the floor for the last 65
years has been removed, revealing pristine oak boards. The rear wall is
entirely glass, with sliding doors that open to the covered patio.

Shoji screens on one side of the living room can be closed to partition
off a dining area that also has direct outdoor access. The adjacent,
eat-in kitchen includes the original avocado-and-turquoise cabinets with
laminate countertops. The flooring is linoleum, and there is access
through sliding-glass doors in the breakfast area to a patio.

A hallway to the left of the front door as you enter takes you to the
bedroom wing. The paneled walls are covered in grasscloth (a couple of
extra rolls come with the house, as do the original blueprints). The
principal bedroom has oak floors, extensive built-ins and shoji screens
that filter light from sliding-glass doors on two exposures. The en
suite bathroom has terrazzo floors, walls and vanity tops, and includes
a walk-in shower, separate tub and double sinks.

Two additional bedrooms have hardwood floors, and a fourth bedroom is
carpeted; all have access to outdoor space. The guest bedrooms share a
terrazzo-lined bathroom with a tub, and a bathroom with a ceramic-tile
floor and a walk-in shower. There is also a half bathroom, off the
foyer, with a terrazzo vanity top.

\textbf{Outdoor space:} The rear patio has a concrete floor and
skylights and stretches much of the width of the house. The patio off
the kitchen is enclosed for privacy, and a slim porch extends from the
front bedrooms. Parking is in an attached two-car garage.

\textbf{Taxes:} \$37,488 (estimated)

\textbf{Contact:} Rachelle Rosten, Douglas Elliman, 310-710-5151;
\href{https://www.themls.com/Dashboards/sharedListings/umy8HDsQE6biI1Kg7vcWsaHkHimy3wEL2FjPmYAtYec5_M3NP6Zkd_ygiWOSsKW6H4dyJ1JjEr41}{themls.com}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/realestate/29WYG-slide-V8GO/29WYG-slide-V8GO-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{kenilworth-ill--2995-million}{%
\subsection{Kenilworth, Ill. \textbar{} \$2.995
Million}\label{kenilworth-ill--2995-million}}

\hypertarget{a-circa-1910-house-with-six-bedrooms-four-full-bathrooms-and-two-half-bathrooms-on-a-053-acre-lot}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{A circa-1910 house with six
bedrooms, four full bathrooms and two half bathrooms, on a 0.53-acre
lot}}{A circa-1910 house with six bedrooms, four full bathrooms and two half bathrooms, on a 0.53-acre lot}}\label{a-circa-1910-house-with-six-bedrooms-four-full-bathrooms-and-two-half-bathrooms-on-a-053-acre-lot}}

Kenilworth, a tiny, affluent suburb (population: 2,500; median household
income: \$212,750), is 15 miles north of downtown Chicago. It was
founded by Joseph Sears in 1889 as a planned community, with street
names taken (like the name of the village itself) from the novels of Sir
Walter Scott, and with houses arranged on diagonals for maximum
sunlight.

This property was built for Sears's son, Barry, early in the 20th
century. In 2008, it was completely overhauled, with new mechanical,
electrical and plumbing systems; a designer kitchen; fresh bathrooms;
replacement windows; and a large rear addition.

The location puts it within easy walking distance of a sandy beach on
Lake Michigan, kindergarten-through-12th-grade education (including the
highly regarded New Trier High School), the commuter train station
(travel time to the Chicago Loop is about an hour) and the businesses
along Green Bay Road.

\textbf{Size:} 6,753 square feet

\textbf{Price per square foot:} \$444

\textbf{Indoors:} A 30-foot-long central hallway with stained mahogany
paneling cuts across the main floor, creating a sightline to the glass
double doors at the opposite end. To the left of the entrance is a
living room with white-painted trim and a fireplace whose marble mantel
was sourced from an old Chicago pharmacy. French doors on either side
lead into a sunroom.

Across the hall is a powder room with a marble-topped vanity, an office
and, beyond that, a dining room with white-painted millwork and
whimsical yellow wallpaper. A sculptural Victorian chandelier hangs from
the ceiling.

The dining room connects to the eat-in kitchen and the adjacent butler's
pantry. The kitchen was designed by Christopher Peacock, with custom
cabinets topped in marble and limestone, spherical pendant lights and a
walk-in pantry. It steps down into a family room with a fireplace
surrounded by Arts-and-Crafts-style, celadon-colored tile and a study
nook.

Among the four second-floor bedrooms is a master suite at the rear that
measures close to 1,000 square feet and includes a fireplace, private
balcony, two walk-in closets, a dressing room and a laundry room. The
master bathroom has a separated pair of vanities topped in stone, a
stand-alone tub and a walk-in shower.

A second bedroom suite on this level contains extensive built-ins and a
new bathroom accented with marble and mosaic tile. The remaining two
bedrooms share a new bathroom that is similarly appointed.

The final two bedrooms and a playroom are on the third floor, along with
a new bathroom with a shower. There is also a finished lower level with
a 46-foot-long recreation room, an exercise room, a laundry room, a
workshop and several storage rooms.

\textbf{Outdoor space:} The house is surrounded by lawns, maples,
evergreens and flowering trees. In back is a large, L-shaped stone patio
with several levels. The detached garage can hold three cars on the
ground floor and has a studio apartment with a full bathroom upstairs.

\textbf{Taxes:} \$60,956

\textbf{Contact:} Mary Grant, @properties, 312-339-2018;
\href{https://www.atproperties.com/10685949/612-warwick-road-kenilworth-illinois-60043-nei}{atproperties.com}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Sarah Szwajkos/Damn Rabbit Studios

\hypertarget{tremont-maine--2995-million}{%
\subsection{Tremont, Maine \textbar{} \$2.995
Million}\label{tremont-maine--2995-million}}

\hypertarget{a-seasonal-camp-consisting-of-a-house-and-three-cabins-on-28-acres}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{A seasonal camp consisting of a
house and three cabins, on 28
acres}}{A seasonal camp consisting of a house and three cabins, on 28 acres}}\label{a-seasonal-camp-consisting-of-a-house-and-three-cabins-on-28-acres}}

Walter Lippmann, the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who popularized
the term ``Cold War'' and advised presidents on free speech and foreign
affairs, built this rustic oceanfront complex on Mount Desert Island in
1940, as a family retreat. It is privately sited on the southwestern
part of the island. Two miles from the town of Tremont, it is convenient
to a lobster pound, a public library, a post office and the many
delights of Acadia National Park, which blankets most of the island. The
town of Bar Harbor is about 19 miles northeast, on the other side.

\textbf{Size:} 2,964 square feet

\textbf{Price per square foot:} \$1,010

\textbf{Indoors:} The camp, which sits at the end of a quarter-mile-long
drive, includes a weathered-wood main house and three cabins strung out
along the shoreline. The principal building is centered on a great room
with a vaulted, beamed ceiling hung with bubble-shaped pendant lights
and a fireplace with a stone chimney. The large, eat-in kitchen is
furnished with basic appliances and open shelves, and has a pantry and a
view of the ocean. The building's south end contains two connecting
bedrooms, each with an en suite bathroom. At the north end are two
bedrooms that share a bathroom with a claw-foot tub.

The first cabin, called Binger, includes two bedrooms with whitewashed
walls and a combined bathroom and kitchenette. Nearby is the Honeymoon
Cottage (a legacy of the camp's rental history), which has a single
bedroom and bathroom. Both cabins are entered through covered porches.

Some yards away is the Cabin on the Point. It has two bedrooms with en
suite bathrooms, a living area with a fireplace, a kitchenette and a
fenced garden area in back.

\textbf{Outdoor space:} The camp has more than 2,500 feet of private
ocean-beach frontage and the remains of a tennis court. There is also a
boathouse and a shed used for parking.

\textbf{Taxes:} \$39,806

\textbf{Contact:} Lewis Wheelwright, Legacy Properties, Sotheby's
International Realty, 207-232-3951;
\href{https://www.sothebysrealty.com/eng/sales/detail/180-l-910-33wsr7/186-lopaus-point-road-tremont-me-04612}{sothebysrealty.com}

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news,
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/realestate/}{sign up here}.
Follow us on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/nytrealestate}{@nytrealestate}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
