Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}When Antifa Hysteria Sweeps
America

\href{https://nyti.ms/3dadKll}{https://nyti.ms/3dadKll}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{when-antifa-hysteria-sweeps-america}{%
\section{When Antifa Hysteria Sweeps
America}\label{when-antifa-hysteria-sweeps-america}}

The panic is a measure of how deluded public discourse has become.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/03/opinion/nicholas-kristof/nicholas-kristof-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{Nicholas
Kristof}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 17, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/17/opinion/17kristof1/merlin_173646105_2d1a027f-c498-40e1-abc2-a0ca961400f1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{listen-to-this-op-ed}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to This Op-Ed}\label{listen-to-this-op-ed}}

Audio Recording by Audm

\emph{To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York
Times, download}
\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytopinion\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=antifa_hysteria_america}{\emph{Audm
for iPhone or Android}}\emph{.}

What can we possibly make of the crisis that unfolded in the remote
Oregon seaside town of Coquille?

Coquille is a sleepy logging community of 3,800 people, almost all of
them white. It is miles and miles from nowhere. Portland is 250 miles to
the north. San Francisco is 500 miles to the south.

But Fox News is in a frenzy about rioters and looters, and President
Trump warns about the anti-fascist movement known as antifa. So early
this month as a small group of local residents planned a peaceful
``Black Lives Matter'' protest in Coquille, word raced around that three
busloads of antifa activists were headed to Coquille to bust up the
town.

The sheriff and his deputies donned bulletproof vests,
\href{https://theworldlink.com/news/local/photo-gallery-hundreds-turn-out-over-rumored-riot/collection_71a9dfac-a562-11ea-b81d-1f2184b2b90b.html\#11}{prepared
their MRAP armored vehicle} and took up positions to fight off the
invasion. Almost 200 local people, some shouldering rifles and others
holding flags, gathered to protect their town (overshadowing the handful
of people who had come to wave Black Lives Matter signs).

``I feel defensive and want to protect my home,'' one man, Timothy
Robinette,
\href{https://theworldlink.com/news/local/hundreds-turn-out-to-stop-rumored-riot/article_b58d6386-a59b-11ea-90f0-7f3504c58c5d.html}{told}
the local newspaper, The World.

A sheriff from a nearby county, John Ward,
\href{https://ktvl.com/news/local/not-a-call-to-arms-curry-county-sheriff-explains-facebook-post-on-rumored-antifa-bus}{warned
citizens} in a public Facebook post of rumors that the anti-fascists
could rampage into his area as well.

``I was told they are looking for a fight,'' he explained. Ward added
that he had no problem with peaceful protests --- a Black Lives Matter
protest had been held peacefully in the local town of Brookings --- but
he hinted that citizens might want to help the police fend off any
antifa attack.

``Without asking,'' he said, ``I am sure we have a lot of local boys,
too, with guns that will protect our citizens.''

Of course, no rampaging anarchists ever showed up. The Battle of
Coquille ended without beginning.

Similar hysteria about antifa invasions has erupted
\href{https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/nation/2020/06/02/false-claims-antifa-protesters-plague-small-us-cities/111899444/}{across
the country}.
\href{https://www.facebook.com/kristof/posts/10159885205317891?__xts__\%5b0\%5d=68.ARAVnkUTUgiRHe7PEE2SsJ8HPxpc50fo9LzoUWxjsgXHvmgtl-NE8VFhGrr4qBIZt7cxN9cvFsH8nVaD0IAVqLeyGe7KsnhjpJxJb8pio_yTPi6m0aKQr8SwTr1950y6fKrObouJIz5ai3L0XEqb0RcN7XnNtGyglUdu76Md2B5qCreEQMveNjWjaw2lNQEAYlSuU7uENm2F8fae1WBozYwBtzgYayLDzVJhZ_VJMsDq9qhaDDQVQ8v3ZxNpcLWJz2PlRPJ8lcd_QsctED82cujRarYxRMSyx0RwGUj-zvljdBuF-sPSdIKyFNo5GE3RBu_qSCL7TUQ\&__tn__=-R}{I
asked my followers on Facebook} how earnest citizens could fall prey to
such panics, and I was stunned by how many reported similar anxieties in
their own towns --- sometimes creating dangerous situations.

In Forks, Wash., which is overwhelmingly white, a mixed-race family from
Spokane that was camping in the area was assumed to be part of a rumored
antifa protest. The local newspaper, The Peninsula Daily News,
\href{https://www.peninsuladailynews.com/crime/family-harassed-in-forks-after-being-accused-of-being-members-of-antifa/}{reported}
that local people aggressively confronted the family --- a mom, dad,
16-year-old daughter and grandmother --- and accused the visitors of
being part of antifa.

The family's vehicle was tailed by four cars of vigilantes, some armed,
and then trees were felled across the road to keep the visitors from
leaving their campsite. (Four high school students rescued them by
cutting the logs with a chain saw, and sheriff's deputies escorted them
to safety.)

Folks, this is insane. It's a measure of how deluded public discourse
has become, how untethered from reality, that a mob of gunmen can
terrify campers apparently because of the color of their skin --- and
think themselves heroes who are defending their communities.

All this ugliness may also be a window into the unrest that could unfold
this winter if Trump is defeated but claims that the election was stolen
from him by immigrants who voted illegally.

I've occasionally encountered mass hysteria in other countries. In rural
Indonesia, I once
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/1998/10/20/world/fears-of-sorcerers-spur-killings-in-java.html}{reported
on a mob} that was beheading people believed to be sorcerers, then
carrying their heads on pikes. But I never imagined that the United
States could plunge into such delirium.

Antifa, short for anti-fascists,
\href{https://www.wbur.org/hereandnow/2020/06/11/what-is-antifa-trump-protests}{hasn't
killed anyone} and appears to have been only a marginal presence in
Black Lives Matter protests.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/11/us/antifa-protests-george-floyd.html}{None
of those arrested} on serious federal charges related to the unrest have
been linked to antifa.

Still, the movement has a mythic status in some right-wing narratives,
and Trump and Fox News have hyped the threat. (The Seattle Times
\href{https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/politics/fox-news-runs-digitally-altered-images-in-coverage-of-seattles-protests-capitol-hill-autonomous-zone/}{caught}
Fox faking photos to exaggerate unrest in Seattle.)

Race-baiting extremists have also tried to manipulate public fears. One
Twitter account purportedly run by an antifa group, @Antifa\_US,
announced on May 31 that ``tonight's the night \ldots{} we move into the
residential areas \ldots{} the white hoods \ldots{} and we take what's
ours.'' But Twitter
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/twitter-fake-antifa-acount-white-supremacists-removal/}{said}
that the account was actually run by white supremacists posing as
antifa.

These antifa panics are where racism and hysteria intersect, in a nation
that has more guns than people. They arise when a lying president takes
every opportunity not to heal our national divisions but to stoke them,
when people live in a news ecosystem that provides no reality check but
inflames prejudices and feeds fears.

You might think that this kind of hysteria would be self-correcting:
Citizens would see that no antifa people show up and then realize that
they had been manipulated by people who treat them as dummies. But the
narrative actually gaining traction in some quarters is that guns forced
the antifa to back off.

NBC News, which has published excellent accounts of this hysteria,
quoted one armed ``defender'' of the remote town of Klamath Falls, Ore.,
as initially saying
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/social-media/klamath-falls-oregon-victory-declared-over-antifa-which-never-showed-n1226681}{that}
antifa warriors were on the way ``to burn everything and to kill white
people.''

After none showed up, a
\href{https://www.facebook.com/BlackDogBilliards/posts/3317601008272149?__xts__\%5B0\%5D=68.ARBOw_sLf2jlK3QcCTbMRjrsJTqAsMSxNx2UukVmY45LyqrCuy-X0T0tuAzWSsdnOV4Gl-MnNgR0ecKIxudwgMoBoWWK47arRAtPcgWHMn4AcQPinPKrffW9bsP1FjDhSKqxq01XlrNi3GZxB4SAma4RZkpO3IFOD4MOetuQwe_zJmMJD6Q0G_gmG-4Vd5bRO-AeCt3lRIor1AxDVPKi8ZIkkDH6Px036y_wjw24tJ3p3GrWniT4pLzdM2O3RMBFze1PY5UXn0_wIpDizlYv2MlRIBtEz_gOWzZLCVPtqMqxm5Fb0Vmh4TmbRqd85BahF8uZkTxF2vcXYERo\&__tn__=H-R}{local
bar owner said} on Facebook that he was proud of the armed turnout and
boasted that antifa activists had been repelled because they ``walked
into a hornet's nest.''

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
