Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Catch Up on 4 Key Moments
From a Night of Norm-Busting

\url{https://nyti.ms/34BbnaG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

News Analysis

\hypertarget{catch-up-on-4-key-moments-from-a-night-of-norm-busting}{%
\section{Catch Up on 4 Key Moments From a Night of
Norm-Busting}\label{catch-up-on-4-key-moments-from-a-night-of-norm-busting}}

Two of our reporters break down the big themes from the final night of
the Republican National Convention.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27repubs-ledeall-trump-copy/27repubs-ledeall-trump-copy-videoSixteenByNine3000-v5.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-medina}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-jennifer-medina/author-jennifer-medina-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jennifer-medina}{Jennifer
Medina}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Jenny Medina:} Well, there is a lot to digest. Thursday was
perhaps the most polished night of the Republican convention, but the
slickness was mostly used for elaborate attacks against Democrats ---
including some who aren't even on the ballot this year. (Hello,
bipartisan punching bag Mayor Bill de Blasio.) Of course, this is
President Trump's party. And if there were any chance you might forget
that, his hourlong speech followed by a massive fireworks display ---
complete with ``TRUMP 2020'' spelled out in fireworks --- was there to
remind you.

But let's step back from the flash for a second. The jarring scene from
the South Lawn of the White House was unlike anything we've seen in
American history. The columns were flanked by giant Trump-Pence logos.
Forget the norm of trying to keep politics separate from the ``People's
House'' --- this was Mr. Trump's house. The seating arrangement,
meanwhile, was like a scene from a pre-pandemic universe --- roughly
1,500 people sitting cheek by jowl, almost entirely maskless, as if
there were nothing to be worried about. (As several public health
experts pointed out, cheering and shouting expel plenty of aerosolized
droplets that can carry the coronavirus.)

Yet, even though the world has changed, so much of what we heard gave me
a sense of déjà vu --- attacks on socialism, ``cancel culture,''
violence in ``Democrat-run'' cities and, of course, illegal immigration.
What stayed with you, Sydney?

\textbf{Sydney Ember:} There was a lot indeed! I am still recovering
from what I am pretty sure was the biggest fireworks display I've ever
seen in my life. What really struck me was President Trump's speech,
which was not really anything like those he gives --- er, used to give,
in the before times --- at his rallies. He largely followed his prepared
remarks, with just a few of his own rhetorical flourishes and riffs. He
spent a lot of time attacking his rival, Joe Biden. Only at the end did
he really get to what he wanted to accomplish if he is elected again.

Did I mention those fireworks?

\textbf{Jenny:} But of course, the fireworks weren't even the finale ---
there was that mini-opera concert that followed. Quite the show for the
reality showman turned president. Mr. Trump railed against what he
deemed the ``failed political class,'' though presumably that included
at least some members of the assembled audience. I think what this week
has made clear --- and Mr. Trump made it very clear Thursday night ---
is that we are in for a brutal and nasty campaign for the next nine
weeks.

\hypertarget{the-gops-line-of-attack-on-biden-safety-first}{%
\subsection{The G.O.P.'s line of attack on Biden: Safety
first}\label{the-gops-line-of-attack-on-biden-safety-first}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/elections/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-cotton/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

\textbf{Sydney:} One of the main (and dark) messages on Thursday night
--- something we've heard a lot over the course of the convention this
week --- was that America would not be safe under Mr. Biden. Numerous
speakers suggested that the United States under Mr. Biden would crumble
under violent riots. But we also heard how Mr. Biden would fail to keep
the country safe from foreign threats.

Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas put it especially bluntly: The country
under Mr. Trump, he said, was ``safer now than four years ago'' whereas
``Joe Biden would return us to a weak and dangerous past.'' He was
particularly cutting on Mr. Biden and China, though
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check}{some
of his claims were misleading}. It all sounded pretty dire!

\textbf{Jenny:} Absolutely. Apart from President Trump, Senator Cotton
perhaps presented the clearest example of how Republicans intend to
campaign this fall: by trying to convince voters that they will be in
clear danger if Mr. Biden is in the White House. He made the same case
many other Republicans shouted, but did it in sotto voce.

They are betting that protests and any violence that follows will scare
voters --- especially the white suburban voters they need --- back to
the Republican Party. But it's not an easy case to make amid a pandemic
that has left
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{180,000
Americans} dead. Mr. Cotton, though, sought to put the blame on the
``Chinese Communists,'' falsely claiming they ``unleashed'' the virus.
(Requisite reminder: Mr. Cotton is widely thought to be eyeing his own
presidential run in 2024.)

\textbf{Sydney:} In fact, Mr. Cotton's speech was something of a preview
of Mr. Trump's remarks. When Mr. Trump got to his section on Mr. Biden
and China, he said China would ``own our country if Joe Biden got
elected.'' I suspect we'll be hearing a lot more of these kinds of
attacks from here on out.

\hypertarget{mitch-mcconnell-pitches-the-senate}{%
\subsection{Mitch McConnell pitches the
Senate}\label{mitch-mcconnell-pitches-the-senate}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Mitch-McConnell/merlin_176260863_fbea1d8a-6ec7-4e6d-83e1-983c60a97d88-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

\textbf{Jenny:} One of the most remarkable things this week was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/trump-rnc-missing-former-presidents.html}{who
was}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/trump-rnc-missing-former-presidents.html}{\emph{not}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/trump-rnc-missing-former-presidents.html}{speaking}
--- no former Republican presidents, vice presidents or nominees for
those posts, no former cabinet members, no Ted Cruz, no Bushes. That's
what made the cameo from Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader,
more remarkable. His taped remarks were brief --- the president of the
Ultimate Fighting Championship was given more time --- but he used the
minutes he did have to focus on grim warnings, saying that ``middle
America'' would be at risk if Democrats controlled the White House or
the Senate. What did you think his appearance was meant to do?

\textbf{Sydney:} One thing was to remind voters that more was at stake
in November than the presidency. Sure, you have the White House, Mr.
McConnell seemed to suggest, but can I introduce you to the Senate? In
particular, he warned Republicans that they could not afford to lose
seats in the upper chamber. ``We are the firewall against Nancy Pelosi's
agenda,'' he said, referring to the Democratic speaker of the House.
Indeed, Democrats are taking aim at several Senate seats across the
country, including in Arizona, Iowa, North Carolina and Maine, to try to
win control of the chamber.

\textbf{Jenny:} As Mr. McConnell well knows, Republicans have reason to
be worried. Democratic candidates have raised hefty piles of money and
polls suggest that many states Republicans once thought were safe may be
at risk of flipping this fall. There may be a bit of a post-convention
bounce for the G.O.P., but there is a lot of worry about losing up and
down the ballot. And Mr. McConnell mocked the idea of turning ``the
swamp itself'' (that would be Washington, D.C.) into its own state,
which would lead to representation in Congress.

\hypertarget{rudy-giuliani-is-ready-for-a-battle-over-his-home-turf}{%
\subsection{Rudy Giuliani is ready for a battle over his home
turf}\label{rudy-giuliani-is-ready-for-a-battle-over-his-home-turf}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/elections/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10/Screen-Shot-2020-08-27-at-10-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

\textbf{Sydney:} Well! Rudy Giuliani certainly seemed to come in raring
for a fight. From the first moments, he took aim at the city he used to
lead, New York City. ``My city is in shock,'' he said. Why? To hear Mr.
Giuliani tell it, Bill de Blasio, the current mayor of New York (and
onetime Democratic presidential candidate), has allowed violent crime,
riots and looting to infest the city's streets. Say what you will about
Mr. de Blasio, but New York has not been overwhelmed by crime.

It might seem like an odd choice for Mr. Giuliani to hit Mr. de Blasio.
After all, the current mayor is not on the ballot this year. But it was
all part of the Republicans' strategy to tie Mr. Biden, a centrist, to
his party's liberal wing and to big-city elites. ``Don't let Democrats
do to America what they have done to New York!'' Mr. Giuliani declared,
before warning that a vote for Mr. Biden would --- you guessed it ---
make cities and towns across the country unsafe. How many times have we
heard that this week?

\textbf{Jenny:} My counter stopped working. But can I just say, as a
California resident, that I was a little surprised to see New York
sustain all the criticism tonight. I almost felt left out! The other
thing that is so striking is the way in which Mr. Giuliani has loomed so
large in politics for so many decades --- ``America's Mayor'' after
Sept. 11, remember that? Mr. Trump is trying to use Mr. Biden's long
time in Washington as a cudgel, but he has no problem with experience
when it comes to Mr. Giuliani, his personal lawyer.

\textbf{Sydney:} It is true that Mr. Biden is no stranger to Washington.
He was first elected to the Senate in 1972 at age 29, and he still to
this day speaks fondly of his time there. But the blanket criticism is
also of a piece with Mr. Trump's 2016 pledge to ``drain the swamp'' ---
one that resonated with voters across the country who feel like the
government does not work for them. Of course, now that Mr. Trump has
spent four years in office, it's a little harder for him to make the
case that he is a political outsider.

\hypertarget{the-finale-for-the-presidential-showman}{%
\subsection{The finale for the presidential
showman}\label{the-finale-for-the-presidential-showman}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/27/us/politics/27vid-rnc-Donald-Trump/27vid-rnc-Donald-Trump-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\textbf{Jenny:} Of course, there was really one main event this week:
President Trump's acceptance speech. By now, we know how much Mr. Trump
relishes his rallies, in arenas packed with thousands of supporters. But
despite his initial attempts otherwise, the campaign has mostly
abandoned them amid the still-staggering pandemic. So it's easy to
imagine that Mr. Trump was delighted to have several hundred friends
waiting for his words on the South Lawn. They were ready to chant ``Four
more years'' at all the right moments and laugh at the president's jokes
made at the expense of Mr. Biden. The most memorable aspect of the
speech, though, was just how un-Trump it was. Do you think he landed any
memorable lines?

\textbf{Sydney:} Admittedly, I thought he lacked some of his usual
bombast. But some of his attacks on Mr. Biden were scorching, like when
he called Mr. Biden's record ``a shameful roll call of the most
catastrophic betrayals and blunders in our lifetime'' or when he
suggested that a pandemic-induced economic shutdown on Mr. Biden's watch
would lead to an increase in drug overdoses, depression and suicides. I
would also note that Mr. Trump produced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/27/us/rnc-fact-check}{some
revisionist history}, particularly when touting his handling of the
pandemic. Overall, though, his speech felt a bit low-energy. Even his
typically rousing ending, in which he usually declares that he will
``Make America Great Again,'' seemed a bit deflated. But that is how
some of his bigger speeches feel when he largely sticks to his script.

\textbf{Jenny:} Much of the ad-libbing came, again, in the form of
attacks. His speech was packed with explicit attacks on Mr. Biden which,
in tone and sheer volume, eclipsed those of any major party candidate in
recent times. He would finish one set of attacks on Mr. Biden, move on
briefly, and then return to slash Mr. Biden again. Conventional wisdom
is that an election is a referendum on the incumbent, but Mr. Trump
clearly wants to make this race about Mr. Biden. Throughout this week,
we have heard very little mention of the pandemic and unrest over racism
that is raging across the country. Instead, we have heard the most
urgent warnings against a future Biden administration and a twisting of
his record. To borrow a word from Mr. Trump's speech, it is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/politics/republican-national-convention-recap.html}{``profoundly''}
clear that the weeks leading up to the election will be, as he might
say, nasty.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
