Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Welcome to College in New
York. Now Quarantine.

\url{https://nyti.ms/3g9Pwt4}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{schools-reopening}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=01f353c0-e3ae-11ea-b830-1145750edefc}{Schools
Reopening}}{Schools Reopening}}\label{schools-reopening}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=01f353c1-e3ae-11ea-b830-1145750edefc}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/schools-reopening-nurses-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=01f353c2-e3ae-11ea-b830-1145750edefc}{Missing
  School Nurses}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/parenting/homeschool-families.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=01f37ad0-e3ae-11ea-b830-1145750edefc}{Home-Schooling
  Families}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/parenting/parents-distance-learning.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=01f37ad1-e3ae-11ea-b830-1145750edefc}{Prepare
  for Distance Learning}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{welcome-to-college-in-new-york-now-quarantine}{%
\section{Welcome to College in New York. Now
Quarantine.}\label{welcome-to-college-in-new-york-now-quarantine}}

The state's ever-changing travel advisory means more and more families
are scrambling to find last-minute accommodations for students.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/14/nyregion/00nyvirus-colleges-1/00nyvirus-colleges-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/troy-closson}{Troy
Closson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

One incoming college freshman had to map out a last-minute road trip
from California to New York, choosing a path through states with low
coronavirus case counts. A parent was forced to reschedule flights three
times in three weeks for another student. A second parent searched for
hours to find a hotel room for her child to quarantine in, less than
eight days before arrival.

The coronavirus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html}{has
disrupted} nearly every facet of student life at colleges: Students are
arriving to campus toting tests showing they are virus-free, dorms have
been reconfigured, and new codes of conduct have been put in place.

But nowhere has the disruption for students been more pronounced than in
New York, where a
\href{https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory}{mandatory
14-day quarantine requirement} for some out-of-state travelers has
created havoc for students from those states.

There are now 33 states under New York's mandatory quarantine, but the
list changes each week, which has forced some college students to
abandon longstanding travel plans and quickly find accommodations to
serve out the quarantine.

``We were just shellshocked,'' said Tanja Chevalier, the parent of a
Syracuse University student who was planning to leave for campus from
Illinois in mid-August. But when their state was added to New York's
travel advisory late last month, the family had to scramble.

The school had set aside quarantine housing on campus, but the deadline
to sign up had passed.

``I'm like, I don't even know what moves to make,'' Ms. Chevalier said.
``Should we just sit and wait to see if there's a solution? Is it going
to fall from the sky? Because I don't know how we're going to figure it
out otherwise.''

In New York, more than 59,000 private-college students come from states
under the travel advisory, according to the Commission on Independent
Colleges and Universities.

New York has allowed individual colleges to decide whether to reopen;
many have opted to offer a mix of in-person and remote classes, opening
campuses and dormitories. Other schools, often citing the myriad
challenges triggered by the quarantine mandate, have gone fully virtual
--- a move that may seem prescient after the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/unc-chapel-hill-covid.html}{moved
all of its classes online} on Monday after outbreaks on campus.

The chaos and uncertainty were cited in
\href{https://president.columbia.edu/news/update-fall-term}{the decision
last week} by Columbia University and Barnard College to conduct all of
their classes online --- even as some of their out-of-state students had
already begun quarantines.

Ana Sofia Rico and her mother arrived in New York on Thursday night from
California, one of the states on the quarantine list. They had spent
nearly \$2,000 on hotels, flights and other expenses for the quarantine,
only to find out a day later that Columbia, where Ms. Rico is a
first-year student, was canceling in-person classes.

``It's heartbreaking when you expect so much more from your school,''
Ms. Rico said.

Across the tristate area, colleges have had to quickly adapt to the need
to quarantine hundreds, or at times thousands, of students arriving from
hot-spot states.

Syracuse, Stony Brook University in New York and Montclair State
University in New Jersey are among those that are setting aside
on-campus quarantine living spaces for freshmen, though in some cases,
without accommodations for returning students.

Other schools like the University at Buffalo and Skidmore College, both
in New York, have partnered with hotels to offer students free rooms.
Still, those spaces have not always matched students' needs.

Alexsandra Walton, whose family hails from California, said she
canceled, booked and again canceled flights, unable to make firm plans
while her son's school was still finalizing its own. She worried about
her son, Justin, a freshman at New York University, who was concerned
about the toll that spending 14 days alone in a quarantine dorm could
take.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/14/nyregion/00nyvirus-colleges-3/00nyvirus-colleges-3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``You start thinking about, `Can he really handle this on his own?' and
I started panicking,'' Ms. Walton said. ``That's already on top of this
hurt that I'm not going to be able to move him in a way like I had
dreamed all these years.''

Rather than staying in N.Y.U.'s on-campus space, Justin Walton is
quarantining with family in the region.

As the number of states subject to the travel restrictions has surged
from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/nyregion/ny-coronavirus-states-quarantine.html}{eight
in late June} to about two-thirds of the country, colleges have
struggled to set aside sufficient on-campus quarantine space for the
students who require it.

Ithaca College has barred students from areas under the travel advisory
from moving onto its upstate New York campus altogether as long as their
states remain on the list. Shirley Collado, **** Ithaca's ****
president, said it was not feasible to provide single rooms, meal
deliveries and laundry services for the more than 600 students who would
need to quarantine.

Affordability, she added, was another factor in the school's decision.
While some universities have made their quarantine accommodations free,
others have tacked on costs --- sometimes at \$1,000 --- for staying in
on-campus spaces, or directed people to discounted but often still
pricey hotels, causing additional stress for some families.

``I'm already borrowing half of the tuition,'' said Ali Zarabi, whose
daughter, a first-year student at N.Y.U., is from rural Virginia,
another state on the quarantine list. ``So the idea of renting something
for two weeks if we couldn't make family arrangements for quarantine
work would be extremely burdensome.''

Other families have struggled to adapt as the 11th-hour changes upend
their work schedules, planned trips and other responsibilities.

Shannon Giles, the parent of an incoming student at Hofstra University,
said she state-hopped through places with lower virus rates before
meeting up with her son and his father in New York before their move-in
date.

But the logistics weren't simple, even beyond the travel. Ms. Giles
lives on a small farm in Indiana, another state on the quarantine list,
and she said that planning the care for the animals and land in a matter
of days was taxing.

``It's not just figuring out a room and meals for 14 days,'' she said.
``There's your life that has to continue.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{schools-reopening-}{%
\subsubsection{Schools Reopening ›}\label{schools-reopening-}}

\hypertarget{back-to-school}{%
\paragraph{Back to School}\label{back-to-school}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

The latest on how schools are reopening amid the pandemic.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    With courses moved online but football games still on,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/sports/ncaafootball/unc-football-acc-online-classes.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{the
    University of North Carolina is a test case} for college sports.
  \item
    The federal government has announced measures
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/health/coronavirus-flu-vaccine.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{intended
    to boost childhood vaccination rates}, which are sagging during the
    pandemic.
  \item
    Much more will be
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/schools-reopening-nurses-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{expected
    of America's school nurses} this year, but the reality is: Many
    schools don't have one.
  \item
    We want to hear from teachers making difficult choices. How are you
    thinking about the start of the school year?
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/teachers-school-reopenings.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{Tell
    us here}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mary Beth Labate, the president of the Commission on Independent
Colleges and Universities, said members of the association spoke with
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's office about whether the quarantine guidelines
could be adapted to better fit how college students typically move onto
campus. But those conversations never took hold.

Image

Instead of beginning his first year at Cornell University on campus,
Liam Monahan is quarantining at a hotel in Brooklyn. He will attend
classes remotely.Credit...Bryan Anselm for The New York Times

The challenges in meeting those requirements have also led some schools
to backtrack on their previous offerings to students. Cornell
University, for example, faced pushback from many families when the
school announced in late July that on-campus quarantine rooms could not
be provided for all students, after previously guaranteeing them.

Liam Monahan, an incoming student at the school, said the reversal came
about a week before he was scheduled to move into a dorm. He and his
parents were wrapping up a move from Hawaii to Washington, D.C., and
Cornell's reversal further complicated the process, he said.

Since starting the semester online in his family's new home would have
been difficult, because it has less physical space, he rushed to secure
a hotel room in Brooklyn. ``None of this has been what I expected, even
more so than quarantining at all was,'' he said.

For students completing their quarantine on campus, colleges are trying
to closely monitor their schedules and exposure to others, often
designating limited periods for outdoor activity and occupancy limits on
common areas. At Syracuse, officials said last week that a group of
students was placed under interim suspension for violating terms of the
on-campus quarantine, but would not provide additional details.

When students who spent quarantines elsewhere begin arriving on
campuses, most schools will require them to fill out forms confirming
that they did so before moving into dorms. But some families worry that,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/16/nyregion/coronavirus-quarantine-nyc.html}{just
as with enforcement throughout New York}, it may be difficult to verify
whether some aren't simply ignoring the order and moving onto campus.

For now, many students continue to prepare for an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html}{adjusted
college experience in the fall, even after the quarantine is up}, as
they make their way to New York.

Mike Matukewicz acknowledged that the ``total scramble'' to get his son,
who will be a freshman at St. John's University, to New York from
Nebraska three weeks earlier than anticipated was stressful. But he said
he was taking an optimistic view on the new normal students are
navigating.

``His dream since he was in sixth grade was to be in New York,'' Mr.
Matukewicz said. ``And that's finally going to be a reality. It'll be a
struggle at first, but we'll get him there.''

As for Ms. Chevalier, the situation improved, but not without
complications. Syracuse opened up more spaces for on-campus quarantine,
which her daughter, Claire, was able to secure. The catch: She now had
five days to pack, travel from Illinois and arrive for her move-in date.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
