Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Democratic Debate
Lineups Might Lead to Fireworks. Here's Why.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2YpzBxL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-democratic-debate-lineups-might-lead-to-fireworks-heres-why}{%
\section{The Democratic Debate Lineups Might Lead to Fireworks. Here's
Why.}\label{the-democratic-debate-lineups-might-lead-to-fireworks-heres-why}}

For half of the candidates, it may be their last chance to make an
impression on the national debate stage.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/29/us/politics/29lineups-sub/merlin_158139762_f0f5e703-3e92-4888-b7f8-cd2bc1f7621e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/25/reader-center/author-reid-epstein/9e877853d8234217b58e5762253aa771-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When 20
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Democratic
presidential candidates} gather for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/democratic-debates}{the
second round of debates} this Tuesday and Wednesday, about half of them
will do so with the understanding that it will probably be their last
time debating on the national stage this election cycle.

The two debates, \textbf{which will air on CNN from 8 p.m. until roughly
10:30 p.m. each night}, are expected to be more contentious than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/28/us/politics/democratic-debates-presidential.html}{the
first set of debates in Miami last month}, when Senator Kamala Harris of
California and former Housing Secretary Juli√°n Castro
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/julian-castro-telemundo-debate.html}{won
plaudits} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-fundraising-2020.html}{fund-raising
boosts} with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-busing-joe-biden.html}{effective
attacks against onstage opponents}.

\emph{{[}Here are}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/politics/democratic-debate-time.html}{\emph{five
things to watch for}} \emph{in Tuesday night's debate.{]}}

Short of a breakout moment that turbocharges their grass-roots
fund-raising and juices their support in public polling, half the field
is in danger of missing the Democratic National Committee's qualifying
threshold for the next round of debates, scheduled for September.

Officials involved in the campaigns and some of the candidates
themselves have foreshadowed testier exchanges this week, as 10
candidates take the stage each night knowing they are fighting for their
political lives.

Join us for live analysis on debate night. Subscribe to ``On Politics,''
and we'll send you a link.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics}{Sign up
for our politics newsletter}

And indeed the debate lineups, chosen during a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/18/us/politics/next-democratic-debate-cnn.html}{game
show-style live draw} on CNN, will provide ample opportunity for
rhetorical fireworks.

\hypertarget{the-lineups}{%
\subsection{The lineups}\label{the-lineups}}

\textbf{Tuesday's debate} will place the race's two liberal
front-runners,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/politics/bernie-sanders-elizabeth-warren.html}{Senators
Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Bernie Sanders of Vermont},
together at center stage.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#postmaster-general-dejoy-testifies-before-the-senate-this-morning}{13m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#postmaster-general-dejoy-testifies-before-the-senate-this-morning}{Postmaster
General DeJoy testifies before the Senate this morning.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{17m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#a-boy-with-a-stutter-gave-a-gripping-convention-speech}{A
boy with a stutter gave a gripping convention speech.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#how-steve-bannons-arrest-disrupted-his-attempts-to-stay-relevant}{32m
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#how-steve-bannons-arrest-disrupted-his-attempts-to-stay-relevant}{How
Steve Bannon's arrest disrupted his attempts to stay relevant.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

\textbf{Wednesday's debate} will feature former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr., under attack for his past positions on race-related issues,
standing between the two leading black candidates: Senators Kamala
Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey. Mr. Biden has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/25/us/politics/biden-booker-black-voters.html}{spent
the last month clashing with both}.

\hypertarget{night-1-july-30}{%
\subsection{Night 1: July 30}\label{night-1-july-30}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/williamson.png}

Marianne Williamson

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/ryan.png}

Tim Ryan

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/klobucha.png}

Amy Klobuchar

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/buttigieg.png}

Pete Buttigieg

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/sanders.png}

Bernie Sanders

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/warren.png}

Elizabeth Warren

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/orourke.png}

Beto O'Rourke

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/hickenlooper.png}

John Hickenlooper

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/delaney.png}

John Delaney

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/bullock.png}

Steve Bullock

\hypertarget{night-2-july-31}{%
\subsection{Night 2: July 31}\label{night-2-july-31}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/bennet.png}

Michael Bennet

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/gillibrand.png}

Kirsten Gillibrand

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/castro.png}

Juli√°n Castro

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/booker.png}

Cory Booker

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/biden.png}

Joseph~R. Biden~Jr.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/harris.png}

Kamala Harris

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/yang.png}

Andrew Yang

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/gabbard.png}

Tulsi Gabbard

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/inslee.png}

Jay Inslee

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/08/17/dnc-candidate-announcement-2/079ca8339f7cc4a6b4d9f860ddbbaa15c1a5d800/deblasio.png}

Bill de~Blasio

Candidates will appear in this order on the stage, from left to right.

\hypertarget{the-format}{%
\subsection{The format}\label{the-format}}

The debates will begin with 60-second opening statements, followed by
60-second responses to questions posed by CNN's moderators, Dana Bash,
Don Lemon and Jake Tapper.

CNN will not ask the candidates ``show of hands'' questions. And
representatives from the network have told the campaigns they will
penalize any candidate who ``consistently interrupts'' by reducing the
amount of time that candidate has to speak.

The candidates will appear at the Fox Theater in downtown Detroit, a
venue that hosted the infamous 2016 Republican presidential primary
debate in which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/03/04/us/politics/republican-debate.html}{Donald
J. Trump defended the size of his manhood} after Senator Marco Rubio of
Florida attacked it.

\hypertarget{the-dynamics}{%
\subsection{The dynamics}\label{the-dynamics}}

On the first night, CNN's moderators will undoubtedly seek to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/politics/bernie-sanders-elizabeth-warren.html}{draw
distinctions between Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren}. Others onstage will
also seek to contrast themselves with the race's leading progressives.
Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota has, in recent interviews,
foreshadowed a resistance to the free college and Medicare for All
proposals pushed by Mr. Sanders. Former Gov. John Hickenlooper of
Colorado and former Representative John Delaney of Maryland oppose
socialism and have attacked Mr. Sanders, a democratic socialist, without
much success.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/us/politics/steve-bullock-debate.html}{Gov.
Steve Bullock of Montana}, who did not qualify for the first debate in
June, has said since then that
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/steve-bullock-providing-health-care-undocumented-immigrants/story?id=64250125}{he
would not support extending federal health care benefits} to
undocumented immigrants, separating himself from most of the
presidential field.

More prospective sources of tension might include a battle between Mayor
Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto
O'Rourke of Texas --- a conflict Mr. O'Rourke's allies have foreshadowed
in recent days. Ms. Klobuchar, meanwhile, has barely hid her disdain for
Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. O'Rourke, two men who are younger and less
accomplished than her but have received far more attention in the race.
And Marianne Williamson, a self-help author,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/27/us/politics/marianne-williamson-mental-health.html}{remains
a wild card}.

While all 10 candidates debating on Tuesday are white, Wednesday's
debate will feature five people of color, including Ms. Harris and Mr.
Booker, who have each placed their bets on wresting the support of black
voters away from Mr. Biden.

There's little doubt Mr. Biden's record on race will be a focus. Ms.
Harris's broadside during the first debate against Mr. Biden's
decades-old position on mandatory busing to integrate public schools
energized her campaign, while Mr. Booker last week
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/23/us/politics/biden-criminal-justice.html}{hit
Mr. Biden for writing the 1994 crime bill}, previewing a line of attack.

Mr. Biden's advisers have said he will be more prepared to fight back
Wednesday than he had been in Miami. His aides
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/25/us/politics/biden-booker-black-voters.html}{pre-emptively
criticized Mr. Booker last week}, highlighting his tenure as the mayor
of Newark.

On the stage's edge, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington is expected to stress
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/24/us/politics/jay-inslee-climate-change.html}{his
signature issue, climate change}, while Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of
New York may return to a vague attack she launched last week in Iowa,
when she accused unnamed presidential rivals of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/26/us/politics/kirsten-gillibrand-2020.html}{not
wanting to see women working ``outside the home.''}

\hypertarget{the-stakes}{%
\subsection{The stakes}\label{the-stakes}}

For candidates like Mr. Inslee and Ms. Gillibrand, the stakes this week
are enormous. Their fund-raising pace is well behind what is necessary
to reach 130,000 donors by September, which candidates must amass to
qualify for the next round of debates.

Candidates must also receive at least 2 percent support in at least four
qualifying polls to participate in the debates, scheduled for Sept. 12
and Sept. 13 in Houston. If 10 or fewer candidates qualify, the debate
will take place on only one night.

Seven candidates have already locked down their spots: Mr. Biden, Ms.
Warren, Mr. Sanders, Ms. Harris, Mr. Buttigieg, Mr. O'Rourke and, as of
Monday, Mr. Booker.

Mr. Castro and Andrew Yang, an entrepreneur, have enough donors to
qualify but need one more qualifying poll each. Ms. Klobuchar has
crossed the polling threshold and is on pace to reach the donor
threshold, according to her campaign, which said Monday that she had
nearly 120,000 donors and was averaging 1,000 new donors a day.

But no other candidate has met either benchmark for the September
debate, and none of them appear particularly close. Short of a breakout
moment that translates into a surge of support over the next month, this
week will be the last time they appear in a nationally televised debate
for this race.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{accepted
    the Democratic nomination}, urging Americans to have faith that they
    could ``overcome this season of darkness.''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    the latest.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
