Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why Joe Biden's Age Worries
Some Democratic Allies and Voters

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZnYJ9G}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-joe-bidens-age-worries-some-democratic-allies-and-voters}{%
\section{Why Joe Biden's Age Worries Some Democratic Allies and
Voters}\label{why-joe-bidens-age-worries-some-democratic-allies-and-voters}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/26/us/politics/00bidenage1/merlin_157613919_c8e64183-54ae-424c-a450-c30161760837-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As aides and allies watched Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s first debate
performance last month, their initial optimism about his abilities
turned to alarm as Senator Kamala Harris
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/kamala-harris-joe-biden-busing.html}{laced
into him} over race and busing.

It wasn't just Mr. Biden's halting answers that worried some of them.
They thought he was showing his age --- that, at 76, he appeared slow
off the mark, uncertain about how to counterpunch as he allowed Ms.
Harris to land clean hits without interruption.

\emph{{[}Moderates faltered at Tuesday.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/31/us/politics/debate-moderate-progressive-democrats.html}{\emph{Will
Joe Biden fare better in the Democratic debate?}}\emph{{]}}

Within minutes, aides sent talking points to supporters titled
``regarding the civil rights exchange,'' and had information on his
record ready for a late-night conference call. But his top advisers and
other Democrats knew his unsteady response --- ending with his listless
comment that his ``time is up'' --- would exacerbate questions about
whether Mr. Biden, a veteran debater, was nimble enough to handle
intense campaign moments or to beat President Trump on a debate stage
next year.

``It felt like he was a step slow,'' said Mike Lux, a Democratic
strategist
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/03/us/politics/biden-1988-presidential-campaign.html}{who
was} a top Iowa staffer for Mr. Biden during his 1988 presidential
campaign and is so far neutral this cycle. ``If Joe comes back strong in
the next few debates, I think it'll be fine. But I do think he looked
kind of old in this debate.\emph{''}

As Mr. Biden prepares for the debate this Wednesday night, which will
include a rematch with Ms. Harris, he and his advisers are grappling
with how to make sure he doesn't appear so shaky, cognizant that a
repeat performance could do lasting damage to his campaign and erode his
advantage in the polls. Several advisers emphasized that Mr. Biden is in
excellent health, and said he will be more prepared to defend his record
and more willing to draw contrasts with his opponents than he was at the
June debate.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/26/us/politics/00bidenage3/00bidenage3-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

But interviews recently with more than 50 Democratic voters and party
officials across four states, as well as with political strategists and
some of Mr. Biden's own donors, showed significant unease about Mr.
Biden's ability to be a reliably crisp and effective messenger against
Mr. Trump.

While the president's own style of communicating is often contentious
---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/16/us/politics/trump-tweet-house-vote.html}{his
bellicose tweets}, his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/us/politics/trump-fact-check-ilhan-omar.html}{misstatement}
of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/08/us/politics/trump-environmental-record-fact-check.html}{facts},
his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/27/us/politics/trump-elijah-cummings.html}{demeaning}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/20/us/politics/trump-race-record.html}{language}
about minorities and immigrants --- he has a largely united Republican
Party behind him. Mr. Biden is still trying to prove himself to
Democrats as their best hope in 2020; many of those interviewed were
most concerned about his agility, and linked it to the sensitive subject
of Mr. Biden's age.

Some voters couched their misgivings in euphemisms about wanting ``new
ideas'' or ``new people.'' Some expressed fears of appearing ageist ---
a reflection of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/28/us/politics/biden-pennsylvania-2020.html}{the
good will Mr. Biden enjoys} with much of the Democratic rank-and-file.
Others referenced their own lives: If they have ``slowed down'' upon
reaching a certain age, the thinking goes, Mr. Biden must have as well.
And a few people were blunt.

``Seventy-plus is too old,'' said John Hampel, 68, of West Des Moines,
Iowa, who said he would like to support a centrist candidate. Mr. Biden
would fit that ideological bill, but Mr. Hampel, citing his own age,
continued, ``I think he should pass the torch.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020
presidential race.}}{]}

If elected, Mr. Biden would become the oldest president in history at
his inauguration, at 78, surpassing Ronald Reagan, who was 73 when he
began his second term. Among the other Democrats running for president,
Senator Bernie Sanders is 77 and Senator Elizabeth Warren is 70.

A Pew Research Center survey from May
\href{https://www.people-press.org/2019/05/23/nearly-half-of-democrats-say-the-best-age-for-a-president-is-in-their-50s/}{found}
that only 3 percent of Democrats and Democratic leaners said it was best
for a president to be in their seventies; 47 percent preferred someone
in their fifties.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/26/us/politics/00bidenage2/merlin_157675839_5e352f39-3089-4743-ac65-af22b3c78479-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump, who would be the oldest president ever if he wins a second
term, has faced questions about his own physical and mental fitness for
years. He has handed his critics unceasing fodder, whether because of
his stated
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/14/us/politics/trump-obese.html}{aversion
to exercise} or his penchant for impulsive, offensive and often-invented
observations on all manner of topics.

Despite all that, Mr. Trump is seeking to turn Mr. Biden's age into an
issue. He has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/11/us/politics/iowa-trump-biden.html}{sniped
publicly} that Mr. Biden is not the political athlete he once was, while
being even harsher in private. Meeting with a group of union officials
in the West Wing this year, the president appealed for their support in
part by tapping on his head and saying, ``Biden is losing it,''
according to a participant in the meeting who disclosed the president's
comment on condition of anonymity.

His unsubstantiated attacks on Mr. Biden, and more muffled disquiet from
some Democratic activists, infuriate Mr. Biden's friends and advisers
and are contrary to the view of Mr. Biden's doctor,
\href{https://www.gwdocs.com/find-a-doctor/kevin-oconnor-do/}{Kevin
O'Connor}.

``Vice President Biden is in excellent physical condition,'' said Dr.
O'Connor, a retired Army colonel, who served as a White House physician
and was named physician to the vice president in 2009. ``He is more than
capable of handling the rigors of the campaign and the office for which
he is running.''

Biden aides grumble there are far fewer questions about the age of his
fellow candidates in their 70s, noting that Mr. Biden is in strong
physical shape for his age.

``The person he's going to be running against is about the same age,''
said Representative Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, a Biden campaign
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/31/us/politics/biden-cochair-cedric-richmond.html}{co-chairman},
in reference to Mr. Trump. He also noted that his candidate is in better
shape and, alluding to the president's erratic behavior, is ``of sound
mind.''

Or as John Morgan, a Florida donor who hosted the former vice president
at his home for a fund-raiser this spring, put it: ``Can you see Donald
Trump jogging?''

Mr. Biden's allies describe him as a fitness fanatic and reasonably
disciplined eater who also enjoys ice cream and cheeseburgers. As vice
president, he favored staples like yogurt and juice, salads with protein
and for dinner, pasta or fish, said John Flynn, who served as military
aide, personal aide and as a senior adviser to the then-vice president
over the course of about five years. Mr. Flynn added that he sometimes
briefed Mr. Biden at the gym.

``I work out every morning,'' Mr. Biden said this month. ``I usually
work on the Peloton bike, and I lift.''

His aides insist that Mr. Biden has more energy than they do. At a South
Carolina fish fry last month, allies note, he outlasted rivals in
greeting voters late into the night. Senator Lindsey Graham, the South
Carolina Republican, has also vouched for Mr. Biden's vigor,
\href{https://www.apnews.com/a9256c8194da4fc79424e9b41c1d6459}{saying}
on CBS in April, ``if you travel with Joe Biden, you won't think he's
too old.''

Mr. Flynn relayed a story about a high-level, 48-hour trip to Iraq and
Rome in 2016.

``I think the only person that didn't sleep on that flight, besides the
flight crew, was him,'' Mr. Flynn said. Speaking of Mr. Biden's stamina
more broadly, he continued, ``Even though he had been up for as long as
he had, he still was the sharpest.''

On the campaign trail, Mr. Biden sometimes recalls an encounter with a
heckler who called him ``Sleepy Joe'' --- a Trump nickname for him ---
during a July 4 parade in Independence, Iowa.

Image

His aides say he is in excellent health and insist that Mr. Biden has
more energy than they do.Credit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York
Times

But as Mr. Biden notes in the retelling, when he asked the individual if
he wanted to jog along with him on a steamy summer morning, the heckler
demurred.

Amy Wright, an Independence resident, told him as he stopped to greet on
her the curb: ``If you can run, you're not Sleepy Joe.''

But for all of the energy Mr. Biden can exude, he is also prone to
uneven performances. He is often warm and empathetic toward voters ---
many of whom emphasized that with age comes experience --- and was quick
and humorous at a news conference in Portsmouth, N.H. this month.

Yet he also meanders and sometimes speaks so softly at events that it
can be difficult for attendees to hear**.** After Mr. Biden tripped over
a few lines while addressing Planned Parenthood activists last month in
Columbia, S.C., one audience member, Marda Kornhaber, tried to be
delicate.

``He didn't come off, I'm trying not to let the age thing ...'' Ms.
Kornhaber, a human resources executive from Charlotte, N.C., said before
stopping herself. ``But he did seem like he bumbled a few times. That
leaves me a little sad.''

He also relays stories about his decades in public life that can seem
off-key at best, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/19/us/politics/biden-segregationists.html}{deeply
controversial} at worst.

Some of Mr. Biden's allies argue that he has long struggled to be
succinct.

``He's never been good at synthesizing his thoughts into 30-second or
60-second answers,'' said former Gov. Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania, who is
75. ``He was just as awkward in '88.''

Where he shines, Mr. Rendell said, is in interactions with voters.

``If you're a good politician, it re-energizes you,'' Mr. Rendell said.
``If you care about people, it re-energizes you. Joe's a good
politician, and he cares about people.''

As Mr. Biden prepares for the next debate, scores of his supporters have
offered the same unsolicited advice to his aides: borrow from the
playbook of another septuagenarian candidate, Mr. Reagan, according to
campaign officials.

Some of these would-be wordsmiths have suggested invoking a version of
Mr. Reagan's
``\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/lists/debatemoments/reagan_carter.html}{there
you go again}'' from his 1980 debate with Jimmy Carter a few months
before Mr. Reagan's 70th birthday. Others have urged Mr. Biden to defuse
questions about his age by employing Mr. Reagan's rejoinder about not
holding Walter Mondale's
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=22Lr4fgSFAY}{youth and
inexperience}'' against him, a line that helped Mr. Reagan bounce back
from a lackluster first debate in 1984.

It is unclear if the former vice president's aides want him to say
anything that will draw more attention to his age.

But Mr. Biden often says that it is fair to raise the issue --- and he
has sought to make light of it, even joking about challenging Mr. Trump
to a push-up contest.

``I find it fascinating, they talk about pass the torch, it's the
time,'' Mr. Biden said at a fund-raiser in California, where he spoke in
broad strokes about the Democratic field. ``And then they talk about me
being naïve. I thought at least they'd give me credit that if I was that
old I wasn't naïve.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
