Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Countering G.O.P. on Courts, Democrats
Will Call for `Structural' Change

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P9nDX0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{countering-gop-on-courts-democrats-will-call-for-structural-change}{%
\section{Countering G.O.P. on Courts, Democrats Will Call for
`Structural'
Change}\label{countering-gop-on-courts-democrats-will-call-for-structural-change}}

Progressives pushed for the platform language after President Trump's
drive put 200 conservative judges on the federal bench and Senate
Republicans blocked President Obama's nominees.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31dc-courts1/31dc-courts1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/carl-hulse}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/14/multimedia/author-carl-hulse/author-carl-hulse-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/carl-hulse}{Carl Hulse}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Alarmed at Republicans' success at reshaping the federal
courts, Democrats plan to use their forthcoming party platform to push
for ``structural court reforms'' to counter what they describe as a
concerted Republican campaign to pack the judiciary with ``unqualified,
partisan judges.''

The platform language stops well short of saying what those changes
should be. But backers of the plank, which was added during
deliberations earlier this week, said the broad statement represents a
significant advance toward beginning a conversation among Democrats
about how to respond to the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/trump-senate-judges-wilson.html}{substantial
imprint} that President Trump and his conservative allies have made on
the federal bench.

``I think it is a major turning point and a very important step,'' said
Pete Buttigieg, the former Democratic presidential contender who was a
strong proponent of reconfiguring the Supreme Court during the primary
campaign. ``This shows the Democratic Party believes we need to
undertake these kinds of reforms.''

The inclusion of the language in the statement of party goals was seen
as particularly significant because former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr., the presumed nominee who is also a former chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, has been cool to the idea of instituting
changes to the judicial branch. He has opposed adding seats to the
Supreme Court --- one idea pushed by the left.

Progressives saw his campaign's willingness to accept the platform plank
as a sign that Mr. Biden and his team were increasingly open to
discussing that potential change among others, such as term limits for
justices and judges or adding federal judgeships at the lower levels.

``Even this generalized statement of support for structural reform is a
big step, considering it is Vice President Biden,'' said Brian Fallon,
head of the progressive judicial advocacy group Demand Justice, which
pushed for the language and released it on Friday. ``I think it shows
real progress for those of us who are trying to get Democrats to take
the courts more seriously than we have in recent years.''

The Biden campaign declined a request to discuss the platform language,
which has not yet officially been made public. One Biden campaign
official said the position on the courts was seen by the campaign as
more of a values statement than a foretelling of specific changes or
proposals.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

But its sponsors welcomed it and said the party had to be more forceful
in response to the aggressive Republican judicial campaign that has
transformed the courts by installing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/14/us/trump-appeals-court-judges.html}{scores}
of younger, highly conservative justices that will be serving for years
to come.

``I think it is a long overdue conversation about how we need to think
about decades of court-capture by the Republicans and the right,'' said
Ilyse Hogue, the president of NARAL Pro-Choice America, the
abortion-rights group, and a member of the platform committee who
submitted the court language as part of a package of additions. She
noted that more than a dozen cases threatening abortion rights were
moving through the courts.

``We cannot just sit by and say that is federal law while Trump has got
the courts for a generation,'' she said. ``It is just not acceptable.''

Anxious about Mr. Biden's views on court restructuring, more than 20
liberal groups wrote to the platform committee in mid-July urging
provisions be included to demonstrate that Democrats recognized the need
to make changes to overcome what they saw as an imbalance driven by
hardball Republican tactics.

They pointed to the 2016 blockade by Senate Republicans of President
Barack Obama's nomination of Judge Merrick B. Garland to the Supreme
Court, as well as Republicans' stalling of judicial candidates and
outright refusal to consider Mr. Obama's court nominees after the party
took control of the Senate majority in 2015. Those acts handed Mr. Trump
scores of vacancies to fill upon taking office.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31dc-courts2/merlin_105801238_4440cae0-c151-4f22-9af9-bbebeb7c5ea0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In the new platform language, Democrats say that Republicans ``have
undermined the legitimacy of our courts through an anti-democratic,
win-at-all costs campaign that includes blocking a Democratic president
from appointing a justice to the Supreme Court and obstructing dozens of
diverse lower-court nominees. The Democratic Party recognizes the need
for structural court reforms to increase transparency and
accountability.''

Another section of the platform, to be released in the coming days,
promises that Democrats ``will nominate and confirm federal judges who
have diverse backgrounds and experiences, including as public defenders,
legal aid attorneys and civil rights lawyers'' --- another objective of
progressives who believe that too many past nominees have corporate law
and prosecutorial backgrounds.

The platform language is a pronounced difference from 2016, when
Democrats, in the middle of the battle over Mr. Garland's nomination,
included boilerplate verbiage about appointing judges who would ``defend
the constitutional principles of liberty and equality for all'' and
protect abortion rights. The thwarted Garland nomination was not even
mentioned in the platform or during the convention itself.

Having gotten the attention of the party elite, activists say they can
now focus on hashing out what kind of changes to pursue given that there
are a wide range of ideas even among Democrats.

``This is a good mark of consensus that we need to do something,'' Mr.
Fallon said. ``Now, we need to build consensus around the particular
theory of reform. What we know is we want to change the trajectory of
the judicial branch going forward.''

Republicans and other critics of Democratic plans to reshape the courts
say that Democrats, unsuccessful in getting their way on judicial
nominees through established channels, now want to upend the rules and
muscle through changes to enhance their political power. Democrats
counter that it is Republicans who have subverted the process to gain
the upper hand over the judiciary.

``This is not about using structural means for ideological advantage,''
Mr. Buttigieg said. ``This is acknowledging that is exactly what
Republicans have done.''

He did not anticipate that such institutional changes would be easy or
quick.

``I know that some of these things could take a generation,'' he said.
``It takes a while to get from here to there.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
