\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Manhattan's Office
Buildings Are Empty. But for How Long?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FdUs3F}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a64dc40-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a64dc41-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a64dc42-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a64dc43-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a650350-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=8a650351-f4c2-11ea-9322-a3eb5bc47b4b\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/business/00office-spaces-grid/00office-spaces-grid-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{manhattans-office-buildings-are-empty-but-for-how-long}{%
\section{Manhattan's Office Buildings Are Empty. But for How
Long?}\label{manhattans-office-buildings-are-empty-but-for-how-long}}

As they grow accustomed to working from home, many businesses are
delaying signing new leases until rents drop and the pandemic passes.

Credit...Vincent Tullo for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-creswell}{Julie
Creswell} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-eavis}{Peter Eavis}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even as the coronavirus pandemic appears to recede in New York,
corporations have been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/nyregion/nyc-phase-2-reopening-coronavirus.html}{reluctant
to call their workers back} to their skyscrapers and are showing even
more hesitation about committing to the city long term.

Fewer than 10 percent of New York's office workers had returned as of
last month and just a quarter of major employers expect to bring their
people back by the end of the year, according to a new survey. Only 54
percent of these companies say they will return by July 2021.

Demand for office space has slumped. Lease signings in the first eight
months of the year were about half of what they were a year earlier.
That is putting the office market on track for a 20-year low for the
full year. When companies do sign, many are opting for short-term
contracts that most landlords would have rejected in February.

At stake is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/12/nyregion/coronavirus-work-from-home.html}{New
York's financial health} and its status as the world's corporate
headquarters. There is more square feet of work space in the city than
in London and San Francisco combined, according to Cushman \& Wakefield,
a real estate brokerage firm. Office work makes up the cornerstone of
New York's economy and property taxes from office buildings account for
nearly 10 percent of the city's total annual tax revenue.

What is most unnerving is that a recovery could unfold much more slowly
than it did after the Sept. 11 attacks and the financial crisis of 2008.
That's largely because the pandemic has prompted companies to
fundamentally
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/style/office-culture.html}{rethink
their real estate needs}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/business/00office-space6/merlin_176318631_2471a7d3-fced-4d5c-ae5f-798e0f3dc547-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Robert Ivanhoe, a real estate lawyer at Greenberg Traurig, said he had
about 20 clients that had postponed searches for new offices. ``They are
putting a lot of thought into coming up with a new operating model ---
how much of my work force is going to work from home and for how much
time?'' he said. ``It has never been turned upside down like this
before.''

Real estate data confirms that. The number of office leases signed from
January through August totaled 13.7 million square feet, less than half
as much as the first eight months of last year, according to Colliers
International, a real estate brokerage firm. By contrast, leasing hit an
18-year high at the end of last year with nearly 43 million square feet
of new leases and renewals.

``When it comes to making decisions about office leases, the words are
postpone, adjourn and delay,'' said Ruth Colp-Haber, the chief executive
of Wharton Property Advisors, a real estate brokerage firm.

Executives at the meal delivery company Freshly were ready to sign a
lease for 50,000 square feet of office space at 2 Park Avenue, a
stately, 29-story Art Deco tower in Midtown, in March.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{13h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{13h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

But the coronavirus abruptly shut New York down for several months, and
the company ``hit pause'' on its expansion, said Michael Wystrach,
Freshly's founder and chief executive. The company is still considering
new office space, but he isn't sure when it would sign a lease. ``We are
long-term believers in New York City.''

During any weekday in Midtown,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-time-life-building.html}{the
sidewalks are as empty} as they usually are on a Sunday, underscoring
how few employees have returned. In August, a
\href{https://pfnyc.org/news/return-to-office-survey-released-from-partnership-for-new-york-city/}{survey}of
major employers by the Partnership for New York found only 8 percent of
employees had returned to the office and most expected to bring
employees back by next summer, and another quarter of them had not
decided when they would return.

Elected officials, real estate tycoons and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/opinion/jerry-seinfeld-new-york-coronavirus.html}{even
Jerry Seinfeld}, the comedian, have issued paeans to New York's
resilience, arguing that city has a history of bouncing back. The city
will soon be brimming with people, by their telling.

Image

Office space at 399 Park Avenue is reportedly available for
sublet.Credit...Vincent Tullo for The New York Times

Image

Workers have been slow to return to the Empire State
Building.Credit...Vincent Tullo for The New York Times

But pessimists --- including some New York hedge fund managers --- see
dark days ahead. They contend that companies will tell most employees to
stay away until a vaccine is widely distributed and perhaps for much
longer.

Which of those two visions is closer to being right will help determine
how quickly New York regains its energy, economic health and tax
revenue.

Investors are not expecting a quick recovery. Shares of companies with
lots of New York office space like Empire State Realty Trust, which owns
the Empire State Building, and SL Green Realty, which owns the immense
new
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/17/nyregion/tower-grand-central.html}{One
Vanderbilt} tower next to Grand Central Terminal, have plunged this
year.

``I think the New York office market is going to be generally challenged
for the next three to five years,'' said Jonathan Litt, the founder of
the hedge fund Land \& Buildings. His fund
\href{https://landandbuildings.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/LandB-NYC-Office-Facing-Existential-Hurricane-1.pdf}{published
a report in May} on why it thinks the shares of Empire State Realty
Trust are overvalued.

A big part of the problem is that many companies are holding off on new
leases.

In recent years, the biggest renters of office space have been
co-working companies like WeWork, New York's largest private tenant.
Such businesses signed nearly 8 percent of new leases in Manhattan last
year and 12 percent in 2018, according to Cushman \& Wakefield. But
co-working companies are in distress and some may not survive.

Other potential renters of offices are unsure what to do or are waiting
for landlords to reduce rents, factoring in incentives like rent-free
months and cash for office improvements. ``What's the point of signing a
lease with a 15 percent decrease in rent if you think it's going to go
lower?'' said Michael Colacino, the president of the brokerage firm
SquareFoot.

Image

There were far fewer people on 5th Avenue one recent Friday afternoon
than before the pandemic.Credit...Vincent Tullo for The New York Times

Some companies with leases that are ending this year or next appear to
be kicking the can down the road, signing short-term extensions rather
than committing to typical deals that last several years. In recent
weeks, NBC Universal extended a lease for a secondary office at 1221
Avenue of Americas and the Stroock \& Stroock \& Lavan law firm did the
same for its office downtown. But they both did so for just a year,
according to Colliers. A spokeswoman for NBC Universal declined to
comment and Stroock \& Stroock did not return a call and multiple
emails.

In normal times, owners of large office buildings would typically not
entertain a one- or two-year lease extension for a large tenant, said
Franklin Wallach, senior managing director of the New York Research
Group at Colliers. ``They see that new leasing activity has dropped off
while the amount of sublet space coming into the market is on the rise,
so the average landlord wants to keep the tenant in the building.''

One of the biggest concerns is that companies could soon start trying to
sublease hundreds of thousands of square feet of space that they are not
planning to use anytime soon. For companies seeking offices, sublets
often provide a shorter lease at a steep discount to market prices.

Starr Insurance Companies, which is led by Maurice R. Greenberg, is
seeking to sublet 190,000 square feet that it leases at 399 Park Avenue,
according to Colliers. And First Republic Bank, which signed a
211,521-square-foot lease last April for 410 Tenth Avenue, put 151,000
square feet up for sublet, according to a
\href{https://pdf.euro.savills.co.uk/usa/market-reports/research-mim-ny-q2-2020-final.pdf}{report}
from the real estate broker Savills. Spokesmen for Starr and First
Republic declined to comment.

Sublet space made up about a quarter of the total office space available
in New York at the end of the second quarter, according to Savills, and
many real estate brokers said they expected that to increase in the
coming months.

In January, Ms. Colp-Haber was showing offices to a construction company
that she said was in the market for a five-year lease in Manhattan. Last
month, the company signed a sublet for one year at a 40 percent discount
to the original lease, she said.

Still, property owners claim not to be overly worried because most
tenants are paying their rent. They point out that office leases last
for years and are very difficult to end early. And large financial
firms, among the biggest tenants in New York, aren't stressed as they
were in the last recession.

Image

Landlords point out that most companies are paying their rent and office
leases tend to last several years and are very hard to end
early.Credit...Vincent Tullo for The New York Times

The most optimistic sign that New York's office market will bounce back
quickly is that big technology companies, which
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/big-tech-business-domination.html}{are
gaining ground}, are scarfing up square feet. Facebook in early August
leased all of the office space --- 730,000 square feet --- in the Farley
Post Office next to Penn Station.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/technology/amazon-office-expansion.html}{Amazon
acquired the former Lord \& Taylor building} on Fifth Avenue in March
from WeWork.

Retail tenants in Hudson Yards, the sprawling development on the Far
West Side of Manhattan, may be reeling, but companies are still moving
in to the project's office buildings.

``They still believe New York is the place to have their business and
grow their business,'' said William C. Rudin, chief executive of Rudin
Management Company. ``The Amazon commitment is amazing; the Facebook
commitment is amazing.''

Some landlords see encouraging signs in their office buildings in the
suburbs, where social distancing is easier because people tend to
commute by cars. This, they argue, suggests that employers and workers
want to return to the office and more of them will make their way back
to New York, too.

Anthony E. Malkin, chief executive of the Empire State Realty Trust,
which owns the Empire State Building, said the number of people coming
into his office buildings in Connecticut in mid-August was 40 percent of
what it was a year earlier, and up from next to nothing in the spring
because of the strict lockdown policies in place at the time. ``That is
a very high number and it's growing.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
