Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/movies}{Movies}\textbar{}9 Great Movies to Stream on
Peacock

\url{https://nyti.ms/2P7z1m5}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/books/time-for-a-literary-road-trip.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Take:
  A Literary Road Trip}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/magazine/bored-with-your-home-cooking-some-smoky-eggplant-will-fix-that.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cook:
  Smoky Eggplant}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/travel/moose-michigan-isle-royale.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Look
  Out: For Moose}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{9-great-movies-to-stream-on-peacock}{%
\section{9 Great Movies to Stream on
Peacock}\label{9-great-movies-to-stream-on-peacock}}

Dive into the new NBCUniversal streaming service to discover these
excellent (and free) options.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/arts/peacock1/peacock1-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Amy Nicholson

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/business/media/nbc-peacock-streaming.html}{Peacock
has taken wing}, and NBCUniversal's streaming service distinguishes
itself from fellow newcomers Disney+ and HBO Max by offering 15,000
hours of film and TV for free, if viewers are willing to tolerate ad
breaks. With enough entertainment to stretch to March 2022 without
sleeping, where to begin? The Universal monsters,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/27/movies/the-invisible-man-universal.html}{like
the Mummy and the Wolf Man}, are an obvious start. Other
self-celebratory categories on the home page include movies starring
``S.N.L.'' alums and a salute to Alfred Hitchcock, who was loyal to the
studio for 43 years.

Build your own double feature of the 1957 sci-fi movie ``The Incredible
Shrinking Man'' and Lily Tomlin's 1981 rejoinder, ``The Incredible
Shrinking Woman,'' or pair two fast-paced flicks set amid the chaos of a
daily newspaper: ``The Front Page'' (1974), starring Walter Matthau and
Jack Lemmon, and Ron Howard's ``The Paper'' (1994), in which Michael
Keaton and Glenn Close battle for control of a story that could send two
Black teenagers to jail. Eclectic to a fault, the service has a film for
every mood. Here are nine of our favorites.

\hypertarget{wild-style}{%
\subsection{`Wild Style'}\label{wild-style}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/music/wild-style/79ccabbc-5c57-3f8d-9047-553b9e3843c4}{S}\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/music/wild-style/79ccabbc-5c57-3f8d-9047-553b9e3843c4}{\emph{tream
it here.}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/28/arts/peacock2/peacock2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

When Fab 5 Freddy spray-painted soup cans on a subway train, it was an
announcement that the guardians of fine art had to shove over for a
generation of kids from Brooklyn and the South Bronx. The director
Charlie Ahearn grabbed his camera to capture the scene, and his
loose-limbed, ad-libbed feature would become hip-hop's first (and
arguably, best) film. ``Wild Style'' is as authentic in sound --- in one
scene, Grandmaster Flash D.J.s in his own kitchen --- as it is in
spirit. The climactic concert at the East River Park Amphitheater was
shot without a permit, twice. As the star Lee Qui√±ones, whose bright
pieces are now in the Whitney's permanent collection, once scribbled,
``Graffiti is art and if art is a crime, please God, forgive me.''

\hypertarget{high-art}{%
\subsection{`High Art'}\label{high-art}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/drama/high-art/73784198-dcd8-3d5c-bee8-8dd75ab75a7a}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

At the height of '90s heroin chic, Lisa Cholodenko wowed Sundance with
this erotic drama about an ambitious young magazine editor named Syd
(Radha Mitchell) and her neighbor, Lucy, a dissolute photographer (a
phenomenal Ally Sheedy). Lucy is the grande dame of the upstairs drug
den where her German girlfriend (Patricia Clarkson), hair in a slovenly
Bardot bouffant, glowers at her love rival in a haze. Mesmerizing and
intelligent, Cholodenko's debut is about the need to see and be seen,
from Syd's power struggle against her demeaning male boss to Lucy's
efforts to sober up and shoot her comeback cover story.

\hypertarget{hold-back-the-dawn}{%
\subsection{`Hold Back the Dawn'}\label{hold-back-the-dawn}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/drama/hold-back-the-dawn/b990b31a-4ace-302f-ba0c-7d0d57a1e42f}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

Consider the screenwriters Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett's
criminally underseen picture a hard-luck counterpart to ``Casablanca.''
While Bogey and Bergman cooled their heels in a swanky nightclub, other
European war refugees assembled on the Mexican border, where Charles
Boyer's Romanian gigolo lucks into a room at the crowded Hotel Esperanza
only because its occupant committed suicide that morning. When an
immigration agent who misquotes the text on the Statue of Liberty
predicts a five- to eight-year wait, the playboy schemes to marry an
American. Once he slides a borrowed ring on the finger of an innocent
tourist
(\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/movies/olivia-de-havilland-dead.html}{Olivia
de Havilland}, luminous as ever), the callous groom is caught in his own
squeeze. Can he cross legally into the States before the ring's rightful
owner, a showgirl played by Paulette Goddard, exposes his ruse?

\hypertarget{bug}{%
\subsection{`Bug'}\label{bug}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/thriller/bug/638239f5-0e3e-338f-8448-a3e55aeb9a24}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

Image

Ashley Judd in ``Bug.''Credit...Anthony Friedkin/Lionsgate

Sick of staring at the same walls? Find catharsis in the claustrophobic
infatuation between a lonely hearts barmaid, Agnes (Ashley Judd), and
the conspiracy theorist (Michael Shannon) who moves into her motel room
and promptly plasters it in tinfoil. ``Bug'' has the lean energy of a
debut feature. Yet the director William Friedkin, in his 70s at the
time, and the screenwriter Tracy Letts, adapting his own play, had
nothing to prove except the thrill of a small story viciously told.
Shannon, who originated the role onstage, turns in a barnstorming
performance.

\hypertarget{dave-made-a-maze}{%
\subsection{`Dave Made a Maze'}\label{dave-made-a-maze}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/comedy/dave-made-a-maze/23c9a70b-1953-3e97-ab47-474c8369f657}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

The first-time filmmaker Bill Watterson scrounged 30,000 feet of
cardboard to build this microbudget monument to practical effects. Over
a lost weekend, the flighty artist Dave (Nick Thune) builds a living
room play fort that, once entered by his girlfriend and a documentary
crew, unfolds into a labyrinth complete with a deadly Minotaur. Here,
sliced necks spurt red confetti, and when survivors crawl through
hole-punched hexagonal tunnels that harken to ``2001: A Space Odyssey''
and flee origami cranes in a homage to the trash compactor scene in
``Star Wars,'' the effect feels both recycled --- literally --- and
ingenious.

\hypertarget{the-best-little-whorehouse-in-texas}{%
\subsection{`The Best Little Whorehouse in
Texas'}\label{the-best-little-whorehouse-in-texas}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/musical/the-best-little-whorehouse-in-texas/1d2e374d-b059-3971-93fe-9d87b979238d}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

The culture wars were never fought with more cheer than in this 1982
musical in which a tinpot TV moralizer (Dom DeLuise) crusades to close
down the Chicken Ranch, a brothel headed by Mona Stangley (Dolly
Parton), a madam who makes entertaining the A\&M football team seem as
wholesome as pouring lemonade at the library. (She's even dating the
sheriff, played by Burt Reynolds.) DeLuise lampoons a now-familiar cable
news type, a hypocrite who rages about liars and sinners in a phony
Texan accent. At the same time, the lily-livered governor (Charles
Durning, who scored an Oscar nomination for the part) is beholden only
to polls. The director Colin Higgins's take on the Broadway hit is a
charm offensive --- perhaps offensively so for those doing a double-take
at its ecstatically content prostitutes. Still, no one can resist Parton
serenading Reynolds with her showstopping hit, ``I Will Always Love
You.''

\hypertarget{desire}{%
\subsection{`Desire'}\label{desire}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/comedy/desire/cedfbfd1-21e1-30b4-9659-af7eca7ee4db}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

Six years after their clench in ``Morocco,'' the oil-and-vinegar combo
of a slithery Marlene Dietrich and a straight-shooting Gary Cooper was
revived for a fizzy caper flick about a scammer who slips purloined
pearls into a stranger's pocket and stalks him through Spain conniving
how to swipe them back. ``The only film I need not be ashamed of is
`Desire,''' declared Dietrich, who slinks through the movie outlined in
feathers and furs. As for Cooper, he speaks for her fans when he swoons,
``First you throw mud in my face, then you want me to kiss your hand.
Continental.''

\hypertarget{the-paperboy}{%
\subsection{`The Paperboy'}\label{the-paperboy}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/drama/the-paperboy/8fc4c4a1-03d4-3399-bd89-892b6f50b3e8}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

Image

Nicole Kidman in ``The Paperboy.''Credit...Anne Marie Fox/Millennium
Entertainment

Fans of Lee Daniels's Southern-fried gothic are committed, in the sense
that the gatekeepers of good taste might pinion them in a straitjacket.
As pulpy as its title, ``The Paperboy'' is a sweathouse of pheromones
set in the Florida swamps where the death-row convict Hillary Van Wetter
(John Cusack) has lured two reporters (Matthew McConaughey and David
Oyelowo), one besotted pen pal (Nicole Kidman) and a college kid (Zac
Efron) who lusts after Kidman's character while the camera drools over
him. Little that follows is suitable for print, which is part of the
fun. Kidman's bravura performance makes audiences feel like they pressed
play on a fugue state and, afterward, can't quite believe certain scenes
were real until someone else watches the film and confirms that, yes,
Kidman did straddle Efron and bellow, ``If anyone's going to pee on him,
it's going to be me!'' Tag, you're it.

\hypertarget{matinee}{%
\subsection{`Matinee'}\label{matinee}}

\href{https://www.peacocktv.com/watch/asset/movies/comedy/matinee/27ce4010-3b5f-3a8c-822b-1783265919be}{\emph{Stream
it here.}}

It's October 1962 in Key West and the brothers Gene and Dennis are
scared of everything. The Cuban Missile Crisis is unfolding 90 miles
away and, closer to home, the gleeful schlockmeister Lawrence Woolsey
(John Goodman) has rolled into town to promote his new chiller,
``Mant!'' The boys can't tell which is their more immediate threat: a
classmate warning that duck and cover won't save them from the atomic
bomb, or the local bully wearing a promotional rubber ant suit. ``It
takes a lot more to scare people these days,'' sighs Woolsey. ``Too much
competition.'' But when Woolsey traces his line of work back to the
first cave man chased by a mammoth, this nostalgic comedy blooms into
the director Joe Dante's love letter to the movies in all their
mutations.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
