Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Woody Johnson Asked State
Dept. Auditors to Delete Claims of Offensive Remarks From Report

\url{https://nyti.ms/3kFqMMP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{woody-johnson-asked-state-dept-auditors-to-delete-claims-of-offensive-remarks-from-report}{%
\section{Woody Johnson Asked State Dept. Auditors to Delete Claims of
Offensive Remarks From
Report}\label{woody-johnson-asked-state-dept-auditors-to-delete-claims-of-offensive-remarks-from-report}}

The American ambassador to Britain rejected accusations that he made
racially or sexually inappropriate comments toward employees at the U.S.
Embassy in London.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/12/us/politics/12dc-woody/merlin_154556976_339215f4-1172-4812-9933-855d9de05e38-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/25/reader-center/author-lara-jakes/author-lara-jakes-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/10/22/reader-center/author-mark-landler/author-mark-landler-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lara-jakes}{Lara Jakes}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/mark-landler}{Mark
Landler}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 12, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The American ambassador to Britain,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/19/us/politics/woody-johnson-trump-ambassador.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{Robert
Wood Johnson IV}, urged State Department investigators against publicly
reporting allegations that he made sexually or racially inappropriate
comments to embassy staff, according to a report released on Wednesday.

The report, the product of a routine inspection of the U.S. diplomatic
mission to Britain that was conducted over a three-month period in the
fall, recommended that officials at the State Department's headquarters
review
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/19/us/politics/woody-johnson-trump-ambassador.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{Mr.
Johnson's conduct}.

But the senior diplomat overseeing European issues in Washington
indicated he would not open a new investigation of the findings and said
Mr. Johnson has since watched a video about workplace harassment and
could receive additional training to prevent violations of employees'
civil rights.

It was not clear if Secretary of State Mike Pompeo or other top leaders
would demand an additional inquiry amid a groundswell from American
diplomats who are women or people of color and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/27/us/politics/a-reckoning-with-race-to-ensure-diversity-for-americas-face-abroad.html}{say
they have been sidelined} at a department that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/06/us/politics/protests-diplomats-coronavirus.html}{promotes
equal rights} and civil liberties around the world.

The\href{https://www.stateoig.gov/system/files/isp-i-20-12.pdf}{final
report} from the State Department's Office of Inspector General said
that staff at the American Embassy in London had reported being subject
to ``inappropriate or insensitive comments'' by Mr. Johnson on topics
that may have included references to ``religion, sex, or color.'' It did
not provide specific examples of his remarks.

Several current and former American diplomats
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/europe/woody-johnson-trump.html}{have
told} The New York Times that Mr. Johnson, a pharmaceutical heir who
owns the New York Jets, often made female and Black staff members
uncomfortable with comments about their appearances or race after he
took up his post in London in November 2017.

Some staff members attributed some of Mr. Johnson's behavior to his age
and social status. But others said they were also distressed by
suggestions that they were disloyal to President Trump or the United
States when they resisted his directives.

The inspector general's office reported low morale among embassy
employees, some of whom said Mr. Johnson had questioned their motives,
or implied he would remove them from their jobs, for raising concerns
about some of his ideas.

``This caused staff to grow wary of providing him with their best
judgment,'' the report found. It also cited Mr. Johnson's ``demanding,
hard driving work style'' as contributing to morale problems.

The final report calls for the State Department's Bureau of European and
Eurasian Affairs to coordinate with the department's Office of Civil
Rights to examine Mr. Johnson's conduct, ``and based on the results of
the review, take appropriate action.''

In a May 27 letter to the inspector general's office, Mr. Johnson, who
is known by his nickname Woody, said he rejected the conclusion that he
may have violated the civil rights of embassy employees.

He also said that, since no employee had filed a formal complaint
against him, inspectors should reconsider ``including the recommendation
in the final report and concluding that my actions have negatively
affected morale.''

``If I have unintentionally offended anyone in the execution of my
duties, I deeply regret that, but I do not accept that I have treated
employees with disrespect or discriminated in any way,'' Mr. Johnson
wrote in his response to inspectors, which was included in the report.

It was the only one of the report's 22 recommendations that drew
pushback from embassy leadership.

In his own response, Philip T. Reeker, the acting assistant secretary of
state for European and Eurasian Affairs, said he did not believe that a
review of Mr. Johnson's conduct was necessary.

Mr. Reeker noted that Mr. Johnson had received praise from some
employees for hosting coffee gatherings and events at Winfield House,
the ambassador's official residence, for embassy staff.

``Ambassador Johnson is well aware of his responsibility to set the
right tone for his mission and we believe his actions demonstrate
that,'' Mr. Reeker wrote in an undated letter to the inspector general's
office.

``We do not believe a formal assessment is required,'' Mr. Reeker
concluded, but said that all staff, including the ambassador, would be
given additional training ``to heighten awareness on these important
issues.'' He also said Mr. Johnson has since watched a department video
on workplace harassment.

The inspector general's office dismissed Mr. Reeker's response and said
it would consider the matter ``unresolved'' until his office ensured the
complaints were properly investigated and addressed, as required by
State Department policy.

The complaints about Mr. Johnson began soon after he arrived in London.

One Black female diplomat told colleagues that Mr. Johnson disparaged
her efforts to schedule events for Black History Month, asking her
whether he would have to address an audience that was ``just a bunch of
Black people.'' He told the diplomat, who later left the Foreign
Service, that she was ``marginalizing'' herself.

After a visit by the education secretary, Betsy DeVos, Mr. Johnson
lashed out at his staff for arranging a reception at his residence that
included teenagers, some of whom were people of color who had won
scholarships to make recruiting visits to American universities.

At his weekly staff meeting, Mr. Johnson once pointed out to colleagues
that he had seen a female employee working out in the embassy's gym that
morning. He joined an exclusive men's club in London, White's, that does
not allow women, and as a result, did not invite the embassy's female
political affairs counselor, but rather her male deputy, when he held
business lunches there.

A State Department spokesman declined to comment on whether Mr. Pompeo
or other top officials would review the allegations, as the inspector
general's office recommended. But in a statement, the department said
Mr. Johnson had served ``honorably and professionally.''

``We stand by Ambassador Johnson and look forward to him continuing to
ensure our special relationship with the U.K. is strong,'' the statement
said.

The report does not mention
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/21/world/europe/trump-british-open.html}{a
separate controversy} that surfaced last month about Mr. Johnson: that
he told multiple colleagues in February 2018 that Mr.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-turnberry-british-open.html}{Trump}
had asked him to see if the British government could help steer the
world-famous and lucrative British Open golf tournament to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-turnberry-british-open.html}{Trump
Turnberry} resort in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-turnberry-british-open.html}{Scotland}.

Instead, the report found that Mr. Johnson's diplomatic efforts with
officials in Britain ``were consistent'' with State Department policy.
It said the
\href{https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/ICS-United-Kingdom_UNCLASS-508.pdf}{embassy's
top focus} under Mr. Johnson was to help develop new bilateral trade and
security agreements as Britain prepared to leave the European Union.

Investigators previously told The Times that concerns about the golf
tournament were not raised by staff during interviews at the embassy in
London or consulates elsewhere in Britain from September to December
2019.

Even as news reports about Mr. Johnson's treatment of his staff and
efforts to help Mr. Trump relocate the British Open to his own property
were about to surface, the ambassador was unapologetic about his loyalty
to the president.

On July 21, Mr. Johnson played host at a dinner for Mr. Pompeo and top
British officials, at which he served wine from Mr. Trump's vineyard in
Virginia. He was serving it, he joked, even though he knew it might be
ethically improper.

The embassy later said that Mr. Johnson paid for the wine himself.

Lara Jakes reported from Washington, and Mark Landler from London.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
