Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Staffing Imbalances Reveal
New York Jail's Growing Pains

\url{https://nyti.ms/2qNsuBZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{staffing-imbalances-reveal-new-york-jails-growing-pains}{%
\section{Staffing Imbalances Reveal New York Jail's Growing
Pains}\label{staffing-imbalances-reveal-new-york-jails-growing-pains}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/05/23/nyregion/23HEADCOUNT-01p/23HEADCOUNT-01p-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/j-david-goodman}{J. David
Goodman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 22, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In a swirl of scandals and struggles to address violence on Rikers
Island, Mayor Bill de Blasio has poured resources into New York City's
Correction Department, hoping to right the ship. More than 1,000
officers have been added during the mayor's term, and the department has
recorded a sharp rise in its civilian head count for oversight, new
programs and overhauls.

But when it comes to civilian workers, they are not, in many instances,
where the mayor's budget says they are.

Commissioner Joseph Ponte, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/11/nyregion/bill-de-blasio-joseph-ponte-correction-commissioner.html}{resigned
earlier this month} after his misuse of city vehicles came to light, has
twice as many people, other than uniformed officers, actually working in
his office as the mayor's budget calls for: 56 work there, according to
the department, while only 23 are budgeted.

Its investigations arm, however, which is charged with rooting out
corruption and malfeasance in the department's ranks, has far fewer than
its allotted share: 69 are there currently, not the 101 in the budget.
The head of investigations, Gregory Kuczinski, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/16/nyregion/amid-eavesdropping-accusations-city-jails-agency-official-is-fired.html?rref=collection\%2Fsectioncollection\%2Fnyregion\&action=click\&contentCollection=nyregion\&region=rank\&module=package\&version=highlights\&contentPlacement=2\&pgtype=sectionfront\&_r=0}{quietly
fired last week} after the Department of Investigation accused him of
using city vehicles for personal use and spying on conversations between
independent city investigators and inmate informants.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/05/19/nyregion/19HEADCOUNT1/18DOCCS1-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At the Correction Department's office of management, budget and
planning, which oversees compliance with a federal consent decree for
Rikers Island, roughly 180 fewer civilians are working than is indicated
in Mr. de Blasio's executive budget, while the personnel office has
almost 50 more than its allotted amount.

The numbers tell the story of a department that is rapidly expanding ---
a small piece of what has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/12/nyregion/bill-de-blasio-government-jobs.html}{an
explosion in the city's head count} under Mayor de Blasio --- but also
one that is struggling to remake itself.

The understaffing at the investigations division is well known inside
the agency and has been the source of consternation for officials. A
federal monitor, put in place by a court order after a settlement with
the city, highlighted the issue in its most recent report, which covers
the final months of 2016 and was
\href{https://www.exiger.com/sites/default/files/Third\%20Monitor\%27s\%20Report\%20-04-03-17\%20-\%20Filed\%20with\%20Appendix\%5B3\%5D.pdf}{released
last month}. The monitor found the department was only in ``partial
compliance'' with an order to hire a sufficient number of investigators
to keep their caseloads at ``reasonable levels.''

The department's deputy commissioner for legal matters, Heidi Grossman,
has said the agency started with a low head count in its investigation
division, and has been trying hard to hire more investigators. ``We've
undergone recruitment efforts and we continue to try,'' she told the
Board of Correction, which oversees city jails,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6943Sid0lTw\&feature=youtu.be}{at
a meeting last week}.

But, she acknowledged, ``some people are not interested in coming on
board right now.''

The Correction Department has been wracked by internal and external
troubles in recent months, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/03/nyregion/brutal-force-at-rikers-island-continues-at-an-alarming-rate-report-says.html}{continued
instances of brutality}, and by criticism that followed the revelation
that Commissioner Ponte had been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/28/nyregion/new-york-correction-commissioner-joseph-ponte-reprimand.html}{out
of the city for 90 days} last year. He spent much of his time in Maine,
driving back and forth in a city-issued vehicle in violation of city
rules. He was among 21 top officials at the department who misused their
city vehicles and charged the department for gas and tolls, according to
the Department of Investigation.

Image

Mayor Bill de Blasio at Rikers Island last year.Credit...Damon
Winter/The New York Times

Soon after, the Department of Investigation also alleged that Mr.
Kuczinski had been eavesdropping on the phone calls.

Mr. de Blasio staunchly defended Mr. Ponte, calling him a reformer and
pointing to the city's declining jail population. Mr. Ponte, 70, has
denied any willful wrongdoing and vowed to pay back the city anything he
owes.

Since June 2014, the number of civilian workers at the Correction
Department increased by 27 percent, to 1,721 people as of March,
according to the latest actual head count figures provided to the city's
Independent Budget Office. In addition, the department has employed
outside consultants to assist with its reforms.

The ramp-up was necessary after years of neglect at the agency, city
officials said, and staff members have been largely focused on carrying
out changes, including project managers, lawyers for compliance and
program counselors for inmates. The disconnect between real and budgeted
figures was a routine and temporary necessity of accounting, officials
said, as the agency hires and decides what to do with its staff, and
will be brought into line with the budget numbers in the future.

``The bottom line is that every single hire is a reflection of the
priorities and goals laid out by the mayor,'' said Freddi Goldstein, a
City Hall spokeswoman, in a statement. ``Commissioners are trusted to
make determinations about how best to allocate head count across
programs within the agency.'' She added, of the Correction Department,
that the staffing levels ``fall within their allotted head count.''

Image

A Correction Department bus traveling across the Francis Buono Bridge
toward Rikers Island.Credit...Johnny Milano for The New York Times

The correction officers' union, which called for Mr. Ponte's departure,
was critical of the civilian hiring. ``We always prefer to see more
officers in the jail,'' said Elias Husamudeen, the president of the
Correction Officers' Benevolent Association, whose ranks have swelled
under Mr. de Blasio. ``Unfortunately, we have too many consultants.''

Elizabeth Crowley, a councilwoman from Queens who serves as chairwoman
of a committee overseeing city jails, also faulted the agency for
relying on consultants, rather than using full-time staff. ``They're not
hiring the talent they need to reorganize and manage,'' she said,
pointing to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/01/26/nyregion/consultant-gets-7-million-more-to-plan-reform-at-rikers-jails.html}{multimillion-dollar
contract} to McKinsey \& Company to work on a blueprint for reforms. ``I
would think the people working in the commissioner's office are supposed
to help him with that sort of thing.''

In addition to the growing civilian work force, the number of uniformed
correction officers has jumped to 9,963 as of March, from 8,922 in June
2014, according to the Independent Budget Office numbers. ``They didn't
have enough bodies to even cover the jails,'' said Mr. Husamudeen,
saying the department had been relying on overtime before.

Politically, the expansion did not receive nearly the same scrutiny or
attention as Mr. de Blasio's decision to increase the number of police
officers by roughly the same amount, adding 1,300 officers as part of
the 2015 budget. That move became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/06/23/nyregion/mayor-de-blasio-poised-to-hire-hundreds-of-police-officers.html}{the
subject of public wrangling} with the City Council.

The eventual closing of Rikers Island, endorsed by Mr. de Blasio, will
most likely entail a sizable shrinking of the uniformed and civilian
ranks. A commission convened by the City Council estimated that a
borough-based system of jails would need less than half the number of
correction officers.

Mr. de Blasio has so far brushed off that eventuality.

``First we're hiring more, right now; second, we're talking about 10
years in the future,'' he said when asked in March about the future
staffing under any closing plan. ``Third, you've seen our approach to
labor relations: Once we hire people, we keep them."

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
