Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Upsides for Some
Remote Workers; Lost Pay and Security for Others

\url{https://nyti.ms/2WVucAQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{upsides-for-some-remote-workers-lost-pay-and-security-for-others}{%
\section{Upsides for Some Remote Workers; Lost Pay and Security for
Others}\label{upsides-for-some-remote-workers-lost-pay-and-security-for-others}}

Working from home creates economic winners and losers. It can benefit
highly skilled employees but depress others' wages and make it hard to
organize.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/business/26virus-labor-1/merlin_174960786_e2500be7-4878-42f8-a351-dbf679c90123-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noam-scheiber}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-noam-scheiber/author-noam-scheiber-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noam-scheiber}{Noam
Scheiber}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 26, 2020Updated July 27, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When the pandemic hit and \href{https://www.nber.org/papers/w27344}{tens
of millions} of American workers suddenly redeployed to their basements
and living rooms, it was easy to imagine that their workdays would
unfold roughly as before, with communication tools like Slack and Zoom
substituting for face-to-face interactions (and maybe with slightly
\href{https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2020/05/toilet-flush-supreme-court-livestream.html}{greater
multitasking opportunities}).

But the shift to a heavily remote work force --- companies like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/21/technology/facebook-remote-work-coronavirus.html}{Facebook}
and
\href{https://blog.twitter.com/en_us/topics/company/2020/keeping-our-employees-and-partners-safe-during-coronavirus.html}{Twitter}
have announced that they will allow many employees to work from home
permanently --- has the potential to change people's work lives in much
more profound ways. It could significantly affect their wages, alter
career prospects and restructure organizations. And as with many
economic shocks, workers are likely to be affected unevenly.

The changes that remote work is accelerating ``are a disaster for
low-skilled labor and could be a good thing for high-skilled labor,''
said Gerald F. Davis, a professor of management and sociology at the
University of Michigan's Ross School of Business who has written
extensively about shifting work arrangements. ``I anticipate it having
this centrifugal effect.''

Many workers could see an increase in disposable income and flexibility,
but others could be pushed into contracting arrangements that lower
their wages and make their livelihoods more precarious. Even highly
skilled workers may find it harder to band together to improve their pay
and working conditions.

So-called fully distributed companies, where everyone works remotely,
often pay employees somewhat less than they might earn in the most
expensive metropolitan areas, but more than they would make elsewhere.

DuckDuckGo, an internet privacy company with a
\href{https://techcrunch.com/2019/03/13/google-has-quietly-added-duckduckgo-as-a-search-engine-option-for-chrome-users-in-60-markets/?guccounter=1\&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbS8\&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAAAj0VxWoB4Iq0f2i-xW6kWicdUxvc0XsbHvypmrqhDVT-voogAV3mv85fW4mnj2EBkU7vPAeP3RJZdpwafyO-zfGC40rZPv-EbVTEs-_cTj26GL3FwVYIeQzGm7Z1KMpmWws8CyLIok7mNs9ZPOQ_kcnBQyBPedngwl_BQTSJo07}{well-regarded
search engine}, formally bases its compensation on salaries at a group
of technology companies across the United States, excluding the San
Francisco Bay Area. Automattic, the maker of the website-building tool
WordPress.com, pays employees based on job responsibilities and
qualifications, regardless of location. (By contrast, tech companies
with physical headquarters often
\href{https://www.cnbc.com/2020/05/21/zuckerberg-50percent-of-facebook-employees-could-be-working-remotely.html}{pay
workers less} if they live in a less expensive area.)

This benefits skilled workers living outside the most expensive markets,
and especially where jobs with generous pay are scarce. Jason Caldwell,
a marketing manager at WordPress.com, makes safely into the six figures
working from Billings, Mont. He is hoping to buy a 100-plus-acre plot
where members of his family can build homes.

And while wages for high-skilled workers in the Bay Area could increase
less quickly as a more remote world reduces local competition for
talent, even they could come out ahead in the end. Reduced hiring of
affluent workers in the Bay Area would also mean fewer bidders for real
estate, slowing the rise in housing prices, said Adam Ozimek, the chief
economist of Upwork, an online freelancing marketplace.

The deeper change is organizational. At a typical company, small chunks
of information relevant to one's work tend to be scattered throughout
the organization --- with the woman on the other side of your desk pod,
the guy three cubicles over, the manager at the end of the hall. This
forces workers into a series of person-to-person interactions throughout
the day, making it necessary for them to keep similar hours even when
that's not convenient.

By contrast, distributed organizations like DuckDuckGo and Automattic
seek to ``separate individuals from the information they possess'' and
create a centralized ``knowledge repository,'' the Stanford business
scholar Jen Rhymer has written. This makes it possible for employees to
complete their assignments from anywhere, at almost any time of day,
without having to check in frequently with colleagues.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/business/26virus-labor-sub2/merlin_157633479_0a70300a-fa50-4306-b0d7-b59c8539658a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At Automattic, which spreads its roughly 1,200 full-time workers across
more than 75 countries, managers like Mr. Caldwell often spend about
four hours a day reading and writing memos on one of the company's
internal blogs, known as P2s.

They document any development that might be relevant to their co-workers
--- everything from ``Google Chrome just announced a change, here's what
I understand about it,'' Mr. Caldwell said, to a description of an
effort to highlight the company's one-on-one training sessions for
users.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{20h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{23h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{29h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

At DuckDuckGo, which has about 100 full-time workers across 17
countries, all relevant developments are recorded in a software program
called Asana. In any given week, employees focus on their ``top
priority'' contribution to a company project.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/technology/duckduckgo-private-search.html}{Gabriel
Weinberg}, DuckDuckGo's founder and chief executive, said the company
tried to keep the projects small and self-contained, with their goals
and scope clearly detailed in a written template, allowing people to
work independently without constant coordination.

``This system works best when it continues to be modular --- there are
not tons and tons of people on a project,'' Mr. Weinberg said. ``It's
easy to jump in as a new member. You read a one-page document and
understand what's going on with it quickly.''

DuckDuckGo, like other distributed companies, also creates specific
opportunities for bonding. There is a weekly ``neighbors meeting'' in
which four or five colleagues who don't normally work together are
randomly assigned to mingle, and an annual companywide gathering that is
normally in person but was held online this year.

Several academics and industry experts said the changes might go even
further. For example, remote companies, because they are set up to allow
people to work efficiently on their own, are also well positioned to use
contractors and other workers who are not employees.

``If you know how to have remote full-time employees, it's much easier
to have remote on-demand people from a freelancing platform,'' said
Stephane Kasriel, who until recently was the chief executive of Upwork,
which counts Automattic, the Wikimedia Foundation and other fully or
heavily distributed organizations as clients. He added that much of what
made this possible was sound management that companies with physical
offices didn't adopt simply because they could afford to be sloppy.

The ease of working as a freelancer can be a boon to many skilled
workers, who can command high hourly rates through Upwork and other
freelancing marketplaces.

But for lower-skilled workers, such as those in customer service or data
entry, working as a contractor tends to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/07/12/business/economy/flash-organizations-labor.html}{reduce
wages and increase insecurity}. Companies
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/02/01/business/economy/wages-salaries-job-market.html}{often
pay} low-skilled employees above-market wages because they have internal
pay scales, but pay only the market price for a contractor or
freelancer.

Mr. Ozimek of Upwork acknowledged that outsourcing work could reduce
wages for low-skilled workers but said this didn't take into account the
lower cost of living for remote workers outside expensive cities and the
job creation that platforms like Upwork made possible by allowing new
businesses to form and scale quickly. Both he and Mr. Kasriel said
freelancers on Upwork tended to be relatively skilled and well paid, as
a
\href{https://www.upwork.com/press/economics/when-work-goes-remote/}{new
study} from the company shows.

Even highly skilled workers could find less leverage at a distributed
company than at one where they work in offices, however. Laurence
Berland, a longtime Google engineer who was active in organizing workers
there before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/18/magazine/google-revolt.html}{he
was fired} last fall, said that digital tools made it easy to coordinate
remotely among workers already involved in an organizing effort, but
that it was often difficult to recruit new workers who were not in the
same physical space.

``Some people maybe correctly consider it a big red flag to say to
someone on a corporate chat, `Hey, can we talk on a noncorporate
device?''' Mr. Berland said. One typical way of enlisting co-workers, he
said, is to start a conversation after overhearing them complain about a
company practice --- something less likely to happen remotely.

Sandy Pope, the bargaining director for the Office and Professional
Employees International Union, which represents workers at the
crowdfunding site Kickstarter as well as university and clerical staff
members elsewhere, said remote work could create inequality among
workers performing the same job because it was harder for them to share
information discreetly outside an office.

``There's a lack of transparency,'' Ms. Pope said. ``The lack of ability
to even track what's going on.''

She said this lack of transparency could also make it easier for
companies to outsource work without employees' knowledge.

Whatever the case, it appears that more and more traditional companies,
recently forced into remote work, are exploring how to use the setup to
better advantage. Upwork's client registrations have increased
significantly during the pandemic, Mr. Ozimek said, though a need for
cost savings may partly explain it as well.

Business has also picked up at Tongal, a platform that connects
freelancers with video production work, from promotional videos to
original programming.

Before the pandemic, many prospective clients seemed reluctant to use
Tongal, but things changed markedly after they sent their workers home,
said James DeJulio, a co-founder of the company and its chief executive.

``Businesses aren't set up with distributed knowledge centers,'' he
said. ``And then overnight, every business was forced to distribute its
knowledge center to a lot of places.''

``It's been really eye-opening,'' he added. ``Any psychological barrier
to using a model like Tongal seems to have evaporated.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
