Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump's False Claims About
His Response to the Coronavirus

\url{https://nyti.ms/3cVwVjT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Fact Check

\hypertarget{trumps-false-claims-about-his-response-to-the-coronavirus}{%
\section{Trump's False Claims About His Response to the
Coronavirus}\label{trumps-false-claims-about-his-response-to-the-coronavirus}}

The president inaccurately described travel restrictions he had
announced, falsely blamed his predecessor for testing shortages and
misstated the role Google was playing in mitigating the outbreak.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/13/us/politics/13dc-factcheck-pix/merlin_170485434_86c3fb7a-60cd-4bbd-b404-e8275f4befb2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-linda-qiu/author-linda-qiu-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published March 13, 2020Updated March 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

As he declared a national emergency over the coronavirus outbreak,
President Trump attempted to deflect criticisms of his administration's
response to the virus with inaccurate claims. Here's a fact-check.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-wrongly-blamed-the-obama-administration-for-coronavirus-testing-shortages-and-falsely-said-it-didnt-do-testing-during-the-swine-flu-epidemic-of-2009}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump wrongly blamed the Obama administration for
coronavirus testing shortages and falsely said it ``didn't do testing''
during the swine flu epidemic of
2009.}\label{mr-trump-wrongly-blamed-the-obama-administration-for-coronavirus-testing-shortages-and-falsely-said-it-didnt-do-testing-during-the-swine-flu-epidemic-of-2009}}

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``I don't take responsibility at all because we were given a set
of circumstances and we were given rules, regulations, and
specifications from a different time.''}

\textbf{False.} The Food and Drug Administration issued a ``draft
guidance'' in 2014 in which it sought to extend its authority to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/01/business/fda-to-regulate-lab-developed-test-kits.html}{regulate
laboratory-developed tests}. But it's wrong to blame that effort for the
scattered and insufficient delivery of coronavirus tests as the guidance
was not particularly relevant to emergency situations and was never
\href{https://www.fda.gov/media/102367/download}{finalized or generally
enforced}.

\href{https://fas.org/sgp/crs/terror/R43607.pdf}{A law enacted in 2004}
created the process and requirements for the use of unapproved products
in public health emergencies. Under the law and
\href{https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Provider-Enrollment-and-Certification/SurveyCertificationGenInfo/Policy-and-Memos-to-States-and-Regions-Items/QSO18-19-CLIA?DLPage=2\&DLEntries=10\&DLSort=3\&DLSortDir=descending}{guidance}
set by the Trump administration itself, the Food and Drug Administration
\href{http://archive.is/lgqI6\#ldt}{requires} developers of
laboratory-developed tests to submit information and to comply with
certain procedures.

The agency said in early March that it would permit unapproved tests for
the coronavirus for 15 days while developers are preparing their
emergency authorization request. Neither the 2004 law nor subsequent
amendments restricted the Trump administration from doing so, nor did it
hamper previous administrations in
\href{https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/emergency-situations-medical-devices/historical-information-about-device-emergency-use-authorizations}{fast-tracking
testing} for other health crises.

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``If you go back to the swine flu, it was nothing like this. They
didn't do testing like this, and actually they lost approximately 14,000
people, and they didn't do the testing. They started thinking about
testing when it was far too late.''}

\textbf{False.} This is blatantly wrong. Diagnostic tests for the swine
flu were approved and shipped out less than two weeks after the H1N1
virus was identified and a day before the first death in the United
States.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T07:33:06.428Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identified the
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/mm5815a5.htm}{first
case} of the virus on April 14, 2009. The Obama administration
\href{https://www.dhs.gov/news/2009/04/26/press-briefing-swine-influenza}{declared}
swine flu a public health emergency on April 26. The Food and Drug
Administration approved a rapid test for the virus two days later. At
the time, the C.D.C. had reported
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/updates/042809.htm}{64 cases} and zero
deaths. The C.D.C.
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/cdcresponse.htm\#CDC_Laboratories_Bolster_Nations_Testing}{began
shipping test kits} to public health laboratories on May 1 (at 141 cases
and \href{https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/updates/050109.htm}{one death})
and a second test was
\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20090729221914/http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm173543.htm}{approved}
in July. From May to September 2009, the agency shipped more than 1,000
kits, each one able to test 1,000 specimens.

Different tests developed by companies also came into widespread use,
though researchers found
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/08/06/health/06flu.html}{flaws
and limitations in them.} A vaccine became available in early October
but, amid reports of shortages, President Obama
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/10/25/us/politics/25flu.html}{declared}
the outbreak a national emergency later that month. The
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21342903}{estimated death
toll} in the United States from the H1N1 epidemic was 12,469 from April
2009 to April 2010.

What the Facts Are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-inaccurately-described-a-website-in-development-to-mitigate-the-outbreak}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump inaccurately described a website in development to
mitigate the
outbreak.}\label{mr-trump-inaccurately-described-a-website-in-development-to-mitigate-the-outbreak}}

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``I want to thank Google. Google is helping to develop a website,
it's going to be very quickly done, unlike websites of the past, to
determine whether a test is warranted and to facilitate testing at a
nearby convenient location.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Trump misstated the company developing
the website and exaggerated its scope. After Mr. Trump spoke, Google
issued a statement on Twitter from Verily, a separate subsidiary of
Google's parent company.

``We are developing a tool to help triage individuals for Covid-19
testing. Verily is in the early stages of development, and planning to
roll testing out in the Bay Area, with the hope of expanding more
broadly over time,''
\href{https://twitter.com/Google_Comms/status/1238574670686928906}{the
statement read}.

A spokeswoman for Verily said it had originally intended for the website
to be used only by health care workers. Mr. Trump's statement prompted
the company to make it available to the public. The site will direct
people to ``pilot sites'' for testing in the Bay Area, the spokeswoman
said. If the pilot goes well, Verily aims to deploy the project
nationwide, but there is no timetable for a national rollout.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-again-mischaracterized-travel-restrictions-imposed-on-certain-european-countries}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump again mischaracterized travel restrictions imposed
on certain European
countries.}\label{mr-trump-again-mischaracterized-travel-restrictions-imposed-on-certain-european-countries}}

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``As you know, Europe was just designated as the hot spot right
now and we closed that border a while ago.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/proclamation-suspension-entry-immigrants-nonimmigrants-certain-additional-persons-pose-risk-transmitting-2019-novel-coronavirus/}{imposed
some travel restrictions} on 26 European countries on Wednesday night,
but those restrictions do not go into effect until midnight on Friday
and do not amount to a total shutting down of the border.

The restrictions bar the entry of foreign nationals who have been to any
of the 26 countries that make up Europe's Schengen Area of open borders
within 14 days. That area does not include more than 20 other European
countries, including Britain. The proclamation also does not apply to
American citizens, permanent residents, their immediate families, or
those who are members of air or sea crews.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-described-telemedicine-technology-as-fairly-new-though-its-been-used-for-decades}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump described telemedicine technology as ``fairly
new,'' though it's been used for
decades.}\label{mr-trump-described-telemedicine-technology-as-fairly-new-though-its-been-used-for-decades}}

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``This includes the following critical authorities --- the ability
to waive laws to enable telehealth, a fairly new and incredible thing
that has happened in the not-so-distant past.''}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} The Centers for Medicare \& Medicaid
Services
\href{https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/telehealth-benefits-medicare-are-lifeline-patients-during-coronavirus-outbreak}{expanded
access to telehealth services} --- for example, virtual check-ins and
telephone consultations with doctors --- for Medicare beneficiaries this
week. But these technologies
\href{https://www.who.int/goe/publications/goe_telemedicine_2010.pdf\#page=11}{have
been} \href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK45445/}{in use}
\href{https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK207141/}{since the 1960s}.

The University of Nebraska used video links to provide exams and
diagnoses with a state hospital 112 miles away in 1964. Three years
later, the University of Miami and a local fire department transmitted
cardiac rhythms using radio channels. Federal agencies initiated a host
of other services in the 1970s and 1980s.

A 1997 government
\href{https://www.gao.gov/archive/1997/ns9767.pdf}{report} noted a
severely injured sailor aboard the U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln was able to be
treated by a doctor in San Diego 6,000 miles away through telemedicine.
By 2014, ``more than 20 federal agencies were engaged in some aspect of
telehealth,''
\href{https://www.senate.gov/CRSpubs/757e3b90-ff10-497c-8e8c-ac1bdbdb3aaf.pdf}{according
to the Congressional Research Service}, with the Department of Veterans
Affairs providing more than 2.1 million telehealth consultations in the
2015 fiscal year.

what the facts are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-said-he-was-not-responsible-for-disbanding-the-white-houses-pandemic-team}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump said he was not responsible for disbanding the
White House's pandemic
team.}\label{mr-trump-said-he-was-not-responsible-for-disbanding-the-white-houses-pandemic-team}}

what Mr. Trump said

\emph{``When you say me, I didn't do it. We have a group of people I
could ask --- perhaps my administration --- but I could perhaps ask Tony
about that because I don't know anything about it.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} The top White House official tasked with
leading the country's response to a pandemic left the administration in
May 2018 and his team was disbanded by Mr. Trump's national security
adviser at the time, John R. Bolton,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/to-your-health/wp/2018/05/10/top-white-house-official-in-charge-of-pandemic-response-exits-abruptly/}{The
Washington Post has reported.}

While there is no evidence that Mr. Trump personally directed the
ousting of these officials, he also did not replace them in the nearly
two years since, despite repeated bipartisan urgings from
\href{https://www.schatz.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/021320\%20NSC\%20Novel\%20Coronavirus\%20Letter\%20final\%20pdf.pdf}{lawmakers}
and
\href{https://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/191122_EndingTheCycle_GHSC_WEB_FULL_11.22.pdf?utm_campaign=wp_the_health_202\&utm_medium=email\&utm_source=newsletter\&wpisrc=nl_health202\#page=31}{experts}.

What the Facts Are

\hypertarget{mr-trump-announced-his-administration-would-temporarily-waive-interest-on-some-student-loans}{%
\subsection{Mr. Trump announced his administration would temporarily
waive interest on some student
loans.}\label{mr-trump-announced-his-administration-would-temporarily-waive-interest-on-some-student-loans}}

What Mr. Trump Said

\emph{``To help our students and their families, I have waived interest
that all student loans held by federal government agencies, and that
will be until further notice.''}

\textbf{This needs context.} Interest rates will be temporarily waived
for borrowers, but
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/business/live-stock-market.html\#link-6b9e26b3}{their
monthly payments will not actually decrease}, according to a Department
of Education spokeswoman. Instead, borrowers' full payments will go
toward the principal on their loans.

The waiver also does not cover student loans issued through state
agencies, big private lenders, a majority of Federal Family Education
Loans or school-held Perkins loans.

Curious about the accuracy of a claim? Email
\href{mailto:factcheck@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{factcheck@NYTimes.com}}.

Daisuke Wakabayashi contributed reporting from San Francisco.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
