Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/science}{Science}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/science}{Science}\textbar{}These Scientists Are Giving
Themselves D.I.Y. Coronavirus Vaccines

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gMK0wT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaefbc0-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaf22d0-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaf22d1-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaf22d2-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaf22d3-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=deaf22d4-f295-11ea-96c9-f92c07a4cad0\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{these-scientists-are-giving-themselves-diy-coronavirus-vaccines}{%
\section{These Scientists Are Giving Themselves D.I.Y. Coronavirus
Vaccines}\label{these-scientists-are-giving-themselves-diy-coronavirus-vaccines}}

Impatient for a coronavirus vaccine, dozens of scientists around the
world are giving themselves --- and sometimes, friends and family
---~their own unproven versions.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-DIYVACCINE2/merlin_175949853_c8cf1b9d-cdca-4bb5-a6a2-0e296fdbc525-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/heather-murphy}{Heather
Murphy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 1, 2020Updated Sept. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2020/09/02/espanol/ciencia-y-tecnologia/vacunas-experimentales-coronavirus.html}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

In April, more than three months before any
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/health/9-drug-companies-pledge-coronavirus-vaccine.html}{coronavirus
vaccine} would enter
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/health/moderna-vaccine-covid.html}{large
clinical trials}, the mayor of a picturesque island town in the Pacific
Northwest invited a microbiologist friend to vaccinate him.

The exchange occurred on the mayor's Facebook page, to the horror of
several Friday Harbor residents following it.

``Should I pop up and get your vaccine started?????,'' wrote Johnny
Stine, who runs North Coast Biologics, a Seattle biotech company with a
focus on antibodies. ``Don't worry --- I'm immune --- I have boosted
myself five times with my vaccine.''

``Sounds good,'' Farhad Ghatan, the mayor, wrote after a few follow-up
questions.

Several residents interjected skepticism in the exchange. They were
swatted down by the mayor, who defended his friend of 25 years as a
``pharmaceutical scientist on the forefront.'' When residents raised
additional concerns --- about Mr. Stine's credentials and the unfairness
of encouraging him to visit San Juan Island despite travel
\href{https://mynorthwest.com/1815668/san-juan-county-council-bans-visitors/?}{restrictions}
--- Mr. Stine lobbed back vulgar insults. (The geekiest and least
R-rated: ``I hope your lung epithelial cells over express ACE2 so you
die more expeditiously from nCoV19.'')

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-DIYVACCINE6/01SCI-DIYVACCINE6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Several residents reported all of this to a variety of law enforcement
and regulatory agencies. In June, the Washington attorney general
\href{https://www.atg.wa.gov/news/news-releases/ag-ferguson-files-lawsuit-against-seattle-business-marketed-and-sold-covid-19}{filed
a lawsuit} against Mr. Stine not only for pitching the mayor with
unsupported claims, but also for administering his unproven vaccine to
about 30 people, charging each \$400. In May, the Food and Drug
Administration sent a
\href{https://www.fda.gov/inspections-compliance-enforcement-and-criminal-investigations/warning-letters/north-coast-biologics-607532-05212020}{letter}
warning Mr. Stine to stop ``misleadingly'' representing his product.

Although his promotional tactics were unusual, Mr. Stine was far from
the only scientist creating experimental coronavirus vaccines for
themselves, family, friends and other interested parties. Dozens of
scientists around the world have done it, with wildly varying methods,
affiliations and claims.

The most impressively credentialed effort is the
\href{https://radvac.org/vaccine/}{Rapid Deployment Vaccine
Collaborative}, or RaDVaC, which boasts the famous Harvard geneticist
George Church among its 23
\href{https://radvac.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/White-Paper-SARS-CoV-2-vaccine-ver-3-0-1.pdf}{listed
collaborators}. (The research, however, is not happening on Harvard's
campus: ``While professor Church's lab works on a number of Covid-19
research projects, he has assured Harvard Medical School that work
related to the RaDVaC vaccine is not being done in his lab,'' a
spokeswoman for Harvard Medical School said.)

Image

``I'd rather have the chance of having some protection than no
protection at all,'' said Farhad Ghatan, the mayor of Friday Harbor,
Wash, who invited his friend Johnny Stine to vaccinate
him.Credit...Jovelle Tamayo for The New York Times

Among the
\href{https://reason.com/video/biohackers-are-on-a-secret-hunt-for-the-coronavirus-vaccine/}{most
tight-lipped} projects is
\href{https://siasky.net/bACLKGmcmX4NCp47WwOOJf0lU666VLeT5HRWpWVtqZPjEA}{CoroNope},
which refuses to name anyone involved because, according to the person
responding to messages sent to the group's anonymous email account, the
``less than half a dozen'' biologists don't want to risk getting in
trouble with the F.D.A. or with their employers.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T12:11:09.219Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-70cea8bb}{As
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet a vaccine, one company pauses its
  trials for a safety review.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780eaa2f}{Britain
  is expected to ban gatherings of more than six people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-11cec4c0}{Quarantine
  breakdowns at colleges in the U.S. are leaving some at risk.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Each D.I.Y. effort is motivated, at least in part, by the same idea:
Exceptional times demand exceptional actions. If scientists have the
skills and gumption to assemble a vaccine on their own, the logic goes,
they should do it. Defenders say that as long as they are measured about
their claims and transparent about their process, we could all benefit
from what they learn.

But critics say that no matter how well-intentioned, these scientists
aren't likely to learn anything useful because their vaccines are not
being put to the true test of randomized and placebo-controlled studies.
What's more, taking these vaccines could cause harm --- whether from
serious immune reactions and other side effects, or offering a false
sense of protection.

``Take it yourself and there is not much anyone can or should do,'' said
Jeffrey Kahn, the director of the Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of
Bioethics. But once a person starts encouraging other people to try an
unproven vaccine, ``you're headed right back to the days of
\href{https://www.hagley.org/research/digital-exhibits/history-patent-medicine}{patent
medicine} and quackery,'' he said, referring to a time when remedies
were widely sold with colorful but misleading promises.

\hypertarget{we-are-the-animals}{%
\subsection{`We are the animals'}\label{we-are-the-animals}}

Image

Don Wang, an immunologist and RaDVaC co-founder, takes blood so he can
examine his antibody response to the vaccine during a gathering of four
collaborators at a secret location in August.Credit...Kayana Szymczak
for The New York Times

The RaDVac vaccine effort, first reported on by
\href{https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/07/29/1005720/george-church-diy-coronavirus-vaccine/}{MIT
Technology Review}, is different from Mr. Stine's project in two
important ways. No one involved plans to charge for the vaccine. And
unlike Mr. Stine's expletive-laden Facebook rants, RaDVaC has a
\href{https://radvac.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/White-Paper-SARS-CoV-2-vaccine-ver-3-0-1.pdf}{59-page
scientific document} to explain how it works and to guide others who
might want to mix up the vaccine formulation on their own.

``The white paper is quite impressive,'' said Avery August, an
immunologist at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., who is not involved
with RaDVaC.

But the impetus of both projects is similar. In March, as Preston **
Estep, a genome scientist who lives in the Boston area, was reading
about people dying amid the pandemic, he vowed not to sit complacently
on the sidelines. He emailed some chemists, biologists, professors and
doctors he knew to see whether any were interested in creating their own
vaccine. Soon they had devised a formula for a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/20/science/coronavirus-vaccine-development.html}{peptide
vaccine} that could be administered through a spritz in the nose.

``It's very simple,'' Dr. Estep said. ``It consists of five ingredients
you could mix together in a physician's office.''

The key ingredient: tiny bits of viral proteins, or peptides, which the
scientists ordered online. If all went well, the peptides would train
the immune system to defend against the coronavirus, even with no actual
virus present.

In late April, Dr. Estep joined several collaborators in a lab as they
stirred the concoction and sprayed it in their nostrils. Dr. Church, a
longtime mentor to Dr. Estep, said he took it alone in his bathroom to
maintain social-distancing precautions.

Dr. Estep soon gave the vaccine to his 23-year-old son, and other
collaborators also shared it with their family members. So far, no one
has reported anything worse than a stuffy nose and a mild headache, Dr.
Estep said. He has also refined the recipe, removing and adding peptides
as new coronavirus research has emerged. So far, he has sprayed eight
versions into his nose.

A traditional drug development workflow begins with mouse or other
animal studies. For RaDVaC, Dr. Estep said, ``we are the animals.''

But without rigorous clinical trials, Dr. August said, there's no
reliable way to know if it is safe or effective. He said he feared that
the scientists' prestigious credentials might imply otherwise.

Dr. Church said that he respected the traditional evaluation process but
that there should also be room for ``pre-research,'' and that most of
what \href{https://wyss.harvard.edu/team/core-faculty/george-church/}{he
had been involved with} throughout his career ---~including editing
\href{http://www.weizmann.ac.il/WeizmannCompass/sections/qa/prof-george-church}{genes
in human cells} --- was considered ``fringe'' at first.

As of last week, Dr. Estep said, about 30 people in the United States,
Sweden, Germany, China and Britain had taken the vaccine. He said a
university professor in Brazil had told him he was considering making it
in his lab and distributing it for free.

\hypertarget{vaccine-via-facebook}{%
\subsection{Vaccine via Facebook}\label{vaccine-via-facebook}}

Image

``Mr. Stine sold this so-called `vaccine' to people in Washington who
are frightened and more apt to look for a miracle cure in the midst of a
worldwide pandemic,'' Washington Attorney General Bob Ferguson
said.Credit...Ted S. Warren/Associated Press

There is a long history of scientists openly testing vaccines on
themselves and their children, but in recent decades it has become less
common, according to Susan E. Lederer, a medical historian at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison. What's ethically and legally acceptable
for testing and distributing your own medical product varies by
institution and by country.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
‚Ä∫}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In August, the Scientific Research Institute for Biological Safety
Problems, a government institution in Kazakhstan,
\href{https://www.biosafety.kz/en/uncategorized/\%D1\%83\%D1\%87\%D0\%B5\%D0\%BD\%D1\%8B\%D0\%B5-\%D0\%BD\%D0\%B8\%D0\%B8-\%D0\%BF\%D1\%80\%D0\%BE\%D0\%B1\%D0\%BB\%D0\%B5\%D0\%BC-\%D0\%B1\%D0\%B8\%D0\%BE\%D0\%BB\%D0\%BE\%D0\%B3\%D0\%B8\%D1\%87\%D0\%B5\%D1\%81\%D0\%BA\%D0\%BE\%D0\%B9-\%D0\%B1\%D0\%B5\%D0\%B7/}{announced}
that seven employees had become the first people to try the Covid-19
vaccine they were developing.
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/russia-coronavirus-vaccine-race-ethics/2020/06/04/ce8b9464-a598-11ea-b619-3f9133bbb482_story.html}{Russian}
and
\href{https://www.the-scientist.com/news-opinion/self-experimentation-in-the-time-of-covid-19-67805}{Chinese
scientists} affiliated with government and academic institutions have
made similar pronouncements amid the pandemic.

The problem with Mr. Stine's product, according to Attorney General Bob
Ferguson of Washington, is not that he took it. It's that he ``sold this
so-called vaccine to people in Washington who are frightened and more
apt to look for a miracle cure in the midst of a worldwide pandemic,''
Mr. Ferguson said in
\href{https://www.atg.wa.gov/news/news-releases/ag-ferguson-files-lawsuit-against-seattle-business-marketed-and-sold-covid-19}{a
statement}. The
\href{https://agportal-s3bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/2020_06_12Complaint.pdf}{lawsui}t
also cites Mr. Stine's unsupported safety and effectiveness claims.

In March, a few months after he said he vaccinated himself and his two
teenage sons, he posted
\href{https://agportal-s3bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/uploadedfiles/Another/News/Press_Releases/StineSMPosts.pdf}{an
ad on the Facebook page for North Coast Biologics}. After
\href{https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20050124005220/en/Spaltudaq-Corporation-Biotech-Company-Started-Accelerator-Newest}{decades}
of working with antibodies, Mr. Stine said in an interview, he knew that
making a vaccine should be ``pretty goddamn easy.''

He described a job that sounded a bit like writing Hollywood screenplays
that never become movies. He makes antibodies that could be used against
various pathogens and sells them to companies that could use them to
develop drugs, but they probably won't. According to the Washington
attorney general's suit, Mr. Stine's company was administratively
dissolved in 2012.

To make his vaccine, he used a genetic sequence for the spike protein on
the outside of the coronavirus to make a synthetic version. He put it in
a saline solution, injected himself just under the surface of the skin
of his upper arm and then took a so-called titer test to look for
antibodies in his bloodstream. ``It took me 12 days from downloading the
sequence to being titer positive,'' he said.

In his Facebook ad, he claimed that this left him immune to the virus
and offered ``interested parties'' the opportunity to ``pay
\$400/person.''

As part of
\href{https://agportal-s3bucket.s3.amazonaws.com/2020_06_22ConsentDecree.pdf}{an
agreement} that Mr. Stine
\href{https://www.atg.wa.gov/news/news-releases/ag-ferguson-wins-refunds-victims-covid-19-vaccine-scam}{eventually
struck} with prosecutors, he must refund all 30 people who had taken his
vaccine.

Mr. Stine seemed amused by this, insisting that few people are likely to
apply for a refund. His fee, he said, barely covered travel costs, and
often he didn't charge.

A man in his 60s in Montana, who asked to remain anonymous for privacy
concerns, said he flew Mr. Stine out to inoculate him and his family.
Now, he said, they have been able to return to ``normal behavior,'' such
as having lunch with friends whose jobs put them at high risk for
exposure. The man even joined Mr. Stine to visit a police officer friend
in Washington State who had been diagnosed with Covid-19 and was ``on
death's door.'' According to all three who were present, no one wore a
mask. And Mr. Stine sat close to the sick officer in an enclosed space
as he gave him a treatment.

Mr. Stine says his vaccine is similar to a recombinant vaccine
\href{https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2020/04/200402144508.htm}{being
developed by the University of Pittsburgh} in Pennsylvania. He also
claims that a shot will not only protect people against the virus, but
also treat those who have it. Dr. Louis Falo, a lead researcher on
University of Pittsburgh's effort, said he was skeptical that Mr.
Stine's vaccine could be safe or effective based on how it was
assembled. Even if it was, he said, it's unlikely it would help sick
people.

In the 1990s, Mr. Stine worked for
\href{https://www.pascalbiosciences.com/company/}{Patrick Gray}, a
molecular biologist who contributed to the discovery of a hepatitis B
vaccine and is now the
\href{https://www.pascalbiosciences.com/company/}{chief executive of a
biotech company}.

Dr. Gray said in an interview that the science Mr. Stine published at
\href{https://xconomy.com/seattle/2009/11/18/the-icos-alumni-where-are-they-now/}{Icos},
the biotech company where they worked together, was ``sound'' but that
the young scientist had a penchant for making too much of too little.
``Johnny was in a hurry to publish his work and advance his career,'' he
said. ``We often insisted on more confirmation and more controls.''

``Regarding his current scientific efforts, I don't believe Johnny is a
`scam artist,' but he has ignored F.D.A. regulations necessary for drug
development,'' he wrote in an email. ``It's just not possible for an
individual like Johnny to create a viable vaccine.''

The mayor of Friday Harbor said he regretted responding to Mr. Stine's
message on his Facebook wall, instead of privately. But he does not see
why he should apologize for accepting his friend's formulation for free.
``I'd rather have the chance of having some protection than no
protection at all and waiting and waiting,'' Mr. Ghatan said.

The controversy, however, has derailed their plans to meet, he said. But
if another opportunity arises to get the jab, he said, ``I would.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
