Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/tennis}{Tennis}\textbar{}Rafael Nadal Won't Chase
a Repeat of His U.S. Open Title

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DaoQLp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{rafael-nadal-wont-chase-a-repeat-of-his-us-open-title}{%
\section{Rafael Nadal Won't Chase a Repeat of His U.S. Open
Title}\label{rafael-nadal-wont-chase-a-repeat-of-his-us-open-title}}

Nadal said he would prefer not to travel to the New York tournament
during the coronavirus pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/04/sports/04usopen-protocols01/merlin_160464417_c050389e-e841-43cb-b413-d8af8282a247-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/christopher-clarey}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/10/multimedia/author-christopher-clarey/author-christopher-clarey-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/christopher-clarey}{Christopher
Clarey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Rafael Nadal will not defend his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/sports/us-open-tennis-cuomo.html}{United
States Open} men's singles title.

On Tuesday, one day after the entry deadline, Nadal announced that he
was withdrawing from the tournament because of his concerns about travel
during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{the
coronavirus pandemic}.

``This is a decision that I did not want to take,'' he said on Twitter.
``But in this case, I am following my heart by deciding that right now I
prefer not to travel.''

Nadal, 34 and ranked No. 2 behind
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/sports/tennis/novak-djokovic-coronavirus.html}{Novak
Djokovic}, is a four-time singles champion at the U.S. Open and won the
singles title last year after a lengthy and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/08/sports/tennis/us-open-rafael-nadal-daniil-medvedev.html}{memorable
five-set duel with Daniil Medvedev in the final}.

With 19 Grand Slam singles titles, he is just one short of matching
Roger Federer's men's record, but he has decided to wait. His next
chance could come at the French Open, which he has won a record 12 times
and which is scheduled to start on Sept. 27 --- just two weeks after the
men's final at the U.S. Open.

``Rafa is one of the greatest champions in the history of our sport, and
we support this decision,'' said Stacey Allaster, the U.S. Open
tournament director. ``I know our fans will be disappointed to not have
Rafa playing this year's Western \& Southern Open and U.S. Open.
However, for the fans and the sport, we look forward to being inspired
by him when he decides he's ready to play.''

Because of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/sports/tennis/tennis-rankings-coronavirus.html}{temporary
changes to the ranking system}, Nadal will still be able to count the
points from winning last year's U.S. Open even though he is skipping
this year's event. He did not specify on Tuesday whether he would play
in this year's French Open, but he had already committed to playing at
least some of the clay-court season when he announced he would play at
the Madrid Open the week after the U.S. Open.

But the Madrid event, one of the most prestigious tournaments on both
the men's and women's tours, was canceled on Tuesday after the
organizers received a recommendation from Spanish public health
authorities to call it off because of an increase in positive virus
tests in some parts of Spain.

``The situation is very complicated worldwide; the Covid-19 cases are
increasing,'' Nadal said. ``It looks like we still don't have control of
it.''

Nadal was in Indian Wells, Calif., in early March, set to play in the
BNP Paribas Open before that event was called off on the eve of the
qualifying tournament. He traveled back to his base in Majorca, where he
went through lockdown before returning to train at the tennis academy he
started in Manacor, his home city.

The women's tour resumed this week with a clay-court event in Palermo,
Italy, but the men's tour has been shut down for nearly five months and
is not set to resume until later this month in New York, with the
Western \& Southern Open and the U.S. Open.

The Western \& Southern Open, normally played in the suburbs of
Cincinnati, was moved to New York this year to create
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/sports/tennis/us-open-hawkeye-line-judges.html}{a
doubleheader in a controlled environment} where it would be easier to
maintain strict health and safety protocols. Spectators will not be
allowed on site at either tournament.

``All my respects to the U.S.T.A., the U.S. Open organizers and the ATP
for trying to put the event together for the players and fans around the
world through TV,'' Nadal said.

But Nadal will instead be watching from afar. So will Federer, who
announced he would not play again in 2020 as he recovered from his
latest knee surgery. The last Grand Slam tournament without Federer and
Nadal was the 1999 U.S. Open, where Federer, then 18, was eliminated in
qualifying. The Open remains the only Grand Slam tournament where
Federer and Nadal have not played each other.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/sports/tennis/ashleigh-barty-us-open.html}{Ashleigh
Barty}, the No. 1 women's player, announced last week from her home in
Australia that she was withdrawing from the Open because of concerns
about travel and the health risks for some of her team members.

But the vast majority of leading players are, at least for now, still
entered, including
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/sports/tennis/serena-williams-us-open.html}{Serena
Williams}, Naomi Osaka, Karolina Pliskova, Sofia Kenin and Bianca
Andreescu, the reigning women's champion. In the men's event, Djokovic
and six other top 10 players remain on the entry list.

But as Alexander Zverev pointed out last week, players are closely
monitoring the health situation in New York and the travel situation
internationally.

The U.S.T.A. laid out key elements of its plan on Tuesday in an update
sent to players, explaining that if a player leaves the tournament
``bubble'' without written permission from Allaster or the tournament's
chief medical officer, the player will be removed from the event and
fined an unspecified amount. If a coach or other guest of a player
leaves the bubble, that credential will be revoked, and the coach or
guest will be required to leave the tournament hotel within 24 hours.
The coach or guest would also be fined and prohibited from receiving a
credential to the 2021 U.S. Open, the U.S.T.A. said.

Several leading players, including the former U.S. Open champion Andy
Murray, have lobbied recently for strong penalties for those who break
health and safety protocols.

Players staying in private housing instead of an official hotel must
rent through the U.S.T.A. and abide by a safety plan. Players must pay
all costs for 24-hour security that is approved, and capable of being
monitored, by the U.S.T.A. Players in private housing are not permitted
to stay with or receive visits from individuals who are not part of the
officially approved entourage that is being tested by the U.S.T.A. for
the virus.

Each player is allowed to come with a maximum of three accredited guests
or team members: up from one in the initial planning, which was a
proposal that Djokovic criticized. But only one of those guests will be
allowed access to competition areas, locker rooms, player dining and
lounges.

Locker rooms will be limited to 30 players at a time, with players
encouraged to leave as soon as possible. In the absence of spectators,
new outdoor fitness areas and outdoor lounge spaces are being created
on-site.

Players and their guests will be tested twice for the virus once they
arrive, about 48 hours apart, and antibody tests will also be
encouraged. Those who test positive for antibodies will be tested for
the virus less frequently during the tournament.

Those who test positive during the tournament will be withdrawn
automatically and isolated for 10 days. Players who test positive upon
arrival could still compete if they received medical clearance after the
necessary isolation. If a player is sharing a hotel room with a guest
and that guest tests positive during the event, the player will be
automatically withdrawn.

Players arriving from outside the United States will not face an
additional quarantine requirement upon arrival in New York, according to
the U.S.T.A. But it is still unclear whether players or their team
members will face quarantine if they travel on to Europe for the
clay-court season, although the U.S.T.A. said it was making ``positive
progress'' on that front.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
