Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/business/media}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/business/media}{Media}\textbar{}Disney, Staggered by
Pandemic, Sees a Streaming Boom

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fnx4wE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/04/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{disney-staggered-by-pandemic-sees-a-streaming-boom}{%
\section{Disney, Staggered by Pandemic, Sees a Streaming
Boom}\label{disney-staggered-by-pandemic-sees-a-streaming-boom}}

The company lost \$4.7 billion in the latest quarter, but also reported
that Disney+ has about 60.5 million subscribers after nine months of
operation.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/04/business/04virus-disney3/merlin_174646827_1c3ac65b-d259-404b-8f35-6bcc15319c1e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/brooks-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-brooks-barnes/author-brooks-barnes-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/brooks-barnes}{Brooks Barnes}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/04/business/media/coronavirus-disney.html?searchResultPosition=3}{Walt
Disney Company} reported doomsday financial results on Tuesday as a
result of the coronavirus pandemic and a television-related write-down,
with net quarterly losses totaling \$4.72 billion.

But Disney's newest and, as far as many investors are concerned, most
important business --- streaming --- experienced blockbuster growth as
people quarantined at home. Disney said it had more than 100 million
subscribers worldwide across its
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/08/business/disney-plus-50-million-subscribers.html}{Disney+},
Hulu and ESPN+ streaming services. Powered by the release of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/30/movies/hamilton-review-disney-plus.html?searchResultPosition=4}{``Hamilton,''}
Disney+ has about 60.5 million by itself, hitting the low end of its
initial five-year goal after only nine months in operation.

To further strengthen its streaming business, Disney said that it would
bypass theaters in the United States, Canada and part of Europe and make
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/12/business/media/tenet-release-delayed.html?searchResultPosition=1}{``Mulan''}
--- a \$200 million film --- available to Disney+ subscribers on a
premium basis. Indefinite access will cost \$30 on top of Disney+
membership and start on Sept. 4.

``Mulan'' had been scheduled for release in theaters worldwide in March.
Disney said it would still release the live-action movie in countries
where theaters are open but Disney+ is not available. That includes
China, where the film's story takes place.

``The tremendous success of Disney+ in less than a year clearly
establishes us as a major force in global direct-to-consumer space,''
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/26/business/media/bob-chapek-disney-ceo.html?searchResultPosition=8}{Bob
Chapek}, Disney's chief executive, told analysts on a conference call.
``We are looking at `Mulan' as a one-off as opposed to a new windowing
model.'' Mr. Chapek added, however, that Disney was ``excited'' to
discover how a major film might perform in online release.

Robert A. Iger, Disney's executive chairman and former chief executive,
did not participate in the call, his first such absence since naming Mr.
Chapek chief in February.

Disney also announced that it would introduce a new general
entertainment subscription streaming service overseas. It will be called
Star, arrive next year and offer programming from Disney properties like
ABC, FX, Freeform, Searchlight and 20th Century Studios, which Disney
bought from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/20/business/media/walt-disney-21st-century-fox-deal.html}{Rupert
Murdoch} last year.

As such, Disney will not pursue an international rollout of Hulu, which
is available only in the United States.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/04/business/04virus-disney/04virus-disney-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Revenue in the quarter that ended on June 27, the third in Disney's
fiscal year, added up to \$11.78 billion, falling from \$20.26 billion a
year ago. In the most-recent quarter, Disney furloughed an estimated
100,000 employees, cut executive pay by up to 50 percent and took out a
\$5 billion line of credit to bolster its liquidity, on top of \$8.25
billion secured in March. The company also suspended its summer dividend
and slashed \$700 million in expansion spending at its domestic theme
parks.

Per-share losses totaled \$2.61 --- a stark departure from the
spectacular growth the company delivered from 2006, when it bought
Pixar, to last year, when it swallowed the majority of Mr. Murdoch's
entertainment empire. In the same period last year, Disney had a profit
of 79 cents per share.

Excluding one-time items, Disney squeaked out per share profit for the
most recent quarter of eight cents, better than analysts were expecting.
The items included nearly \$5 billion of write-downs, in large part
related to Disney's traditional international television business.
Disney has closed down more than 20 overseas cable channels so far this
year.

Increasingly cost-conscious consumers are canceling their cable and
satellite service in larger numbers, resulting in lower subscriber fees
and advertising sales for companies like Disney, which owns the FX,
Freeform, National Geographic, Disney Channel and Disney Junior cable
networks. It is not just overseas: Richard Greenfield, a founder of the
LightShed partners research firm, estimates that Americans will be
cutting the cord at an 8 percent rate by the end of the year, compared
with a 6 percent rate in the spring.

Despite the impact of the pandemic, Disney's share price has been
remarkably buoyant, with investors overlooking near-term losses and
focusing on comeback efforts --- most notably the return of some
sporting events and the reopening of a retrofitted
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/business/florida-coronavirus-disney-world-reopening.html}{Walt
Disney World} to a limited number of visitors. The early success of
Disney's streaming division has also helped Disney shares, which climbed
5 percent in after-hours trading on Tuesday, to about \$123.

Hulu has been on a roll because of new programming, including the
FX-supplied series ``Mrs. America,'' which received eight Emmy
nominations. Disney+ created a cultural thunderclap in early July, when
it released a live capture of the original ``Hamilton'' stage
production.

But building streaming services is tremendously expensive. Losses at
Disney's streaming division grew to \$706 million from \$562 million in
the quarter.

Disney Media Networks, a division that includes ESPN, was helped by the
pandemic, at least from a fiscal standpoint. It had operating profit of
about \$3.2 billion, a 48 percent increase, because ESPN was able to
defer substantial rights payments to the N.B.A. and Major League
Baseball. Disney's movie studio held its own; operating profit fell 16
percent, to \$668 million, in part because theaters were closed and the
company did not have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to
advertise the arrival of new films.

But it was a brutal period for Disney's theme park division, where
operating profit plunged \$3.7 billion, resulting in a loss of about \$2
billion. Christine M. McCarthy, Disney's chief financial officer, told
analysts that Shanghai Disneyland, which reopened in early May, had
started to bounce back. But the company's Florida mega-resort, Walt
Disney World, which reopened in mid-July, has performed worse than the
company had anticipated.

``We expect that demand will grow when the Covid situation in Florida
improves,'' Ms. McCarthy said on the conference call. Florida reported
roughly 5,500 new coronavirus infections on Tuesday. That is down from
more than 9,000 a day last week but is still among the highest infection
rates in the nation.

Disney's theme parks have long been watched as a bellwether for the
broader economy. It is unclear whether the masses --- reeling from
widespread pay cuts and job losses --- will be able to afford Disney
vacations in the months and years ahead. So far, Disney has not reduced
its ticket prices.

NBCUniversal, which operates two major theme parks in Orlando, has also
indicated that demand is lighter than anticipated. Universal has put
into place multiple rounds of layoffs since its Florida parks reopened
in early June, and the company in recent days announced a startling
promotion for Florida residents: buy one two-park adult ticket (\$164)
and get
\href{https://insidethemagic.net/2020/08/free-access-universal-orlando-ro1/}{unlimited
visits} through the end of the year. NBCUniversal said last week that
revenue at its theme park unit shrank to \$87 million in the most-recent
quarter from \$1.46 billion.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
