Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}Local Officials in
China Hid Coronavirus Dangers From Beijing, U.S. Agencies Find

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EbxVnr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f9333230-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f9335940-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f9341c90-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f9341c91-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f93443a0-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=f93443a1-e38c-11ea-979b-d12b386f95eb}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{local-officials-in-china-hid-coronavirus-dangers-from-beijing-us-agencies-find}{%
\section{Local Officials in China Hid Coronavirus Dangers From Beijing,
U.S. Agencies
Find}\label{local-officials-in-china-hid-coronavirus-dangers-from-beijing-us-agencies-find}}

A new U.S. intelligence report says top officials in Beijing were in the
dark in early January on the true dangers of the virus. That could
affect U.S. policy on China.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19dc-virus-china1/merlin_167784024_a318671f-388a-477e-86e8-2538ef29833d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/24/multimedia/author-edward-wong/author-edward-wong-thumbLarge-v5.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julian-e-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-julian-barnes/author-julian-barnes-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-zolan-kanno-youngs/author-zolan-kanno-youngs-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/edward-wong}{Edward
Wong},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julian-e-barnes}{Julian E.
Barnes} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200820/china-coronavirus-beijing-trump/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200820/china-coronavirus-beijing-trump/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- Trump administration officials have tried taking a
political sledgehammer to China over the coronavirus pandemic, asserting
that the Chinese Communist Party covered up the initial outbreak and
allowed the virus to spread around the globe.

But within the United States government, intelligence officials have
arrived at a more nuanced and complex finding of what Chinese officials
did wrong in January.

Officials in Beijing were kept in the dark for weeks about the potential
devastation of the virus by local officials in central China, according
to American officials familiar with a new internal report by U.S.
intelligence agencies.

The report concluded that officials in the city of Wuhan and in Hubei
Province, where the outbreak began late last year, tried to hide
information from China's central leadership. The finding is consistent
with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/29/world/asia/coronavirus-china.html}{reporting
by news organizations} and with assessments by China experts of the
country's opaque
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/05/sunday-review/china-military-economic-power.html}{governance
system}.

Local officials often withhold information from Beijing for fear of
reprisal, current and former American officials say.

The new assessment does not contradict the Trump administration's
criticism of China, but adds perspective and context to actions --- and
inactions --- that created the global crisis.

President Trump
\href{https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/remarks-president-trump-2020-salute-america/}{said
in a July 4 speech} at the White House that ``China's secrecy,
deceptions and cover-up'' enabled the pandemic. Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo
\href{https://www.state.gov/my-faith-my-work-my-country/}{insisted} the
administration was ``telling the truth every day'' about ``the Communist
cover-up of that virus.'' Peter Navarro, a White House trade adviser,
\href{https://twitter.com/PeterNavarro45/status/1294630610779213824?s=20}{said
on Saturday} that the pandemic was ``perpetrated on America'' by the
Chinese Communist Party.

The accusations dovetail with advice from Trump campaign strategists to
look tough on China to try to shift the spotlight from the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-response.html}{president's
failures on the pandemic} and the United States economy, and to paper
over his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/trump-china-bolton.html}{constant
praise of Xi Jinping}, China's authoritarian leader.

But the broad political messaging leaves an impression that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/08/world/asia/xi-coronavirus-china.html}{Mr.
Xi and other top officials knew} of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/18/health/coronavirus-america-future.html}{dangers
of the new coronavirus} in the early days and went to great lengths to
hide them.

The report, originally circulated in June, has classified and
unclassified sections, and it represents the consensus of the C.I.A. and
other intelligence agencies. It still supports the overall notion that
Communist Party officials hid important information from the world, U.S.
officials said. The report says senior officials in Beijing, even as
they were scrambling to pry data from officials in central China, played
a role in obscuring the outbreak by withholding information from the
World Health Organization.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But the report adds to a body of evidence that shows how the malfeasance
of local Chinese officials appeared to be a decisive factor in the
spread of the virus within Wuhan and beyond.

An internal U.S. government assessment of the differences in fault
between Chinese leaders and local officials potentially has significant
policy implications.

``It makes a huge difference if it was Wuhan or Beijing,'' said
\href{https://www.hudson.org/experts/724-michael-pillsbury}{Michael
Pillsbury}, a China scholar at the Hudson Institute who informally
advises Mr. Trump.

If Mr. Xi was not the main person at fault, he said, then that meant
that top Chinese officials had not engaged in total deceit on the
coronavirus, and American officials had some basis for still trying to
engage in good-faith negotiations with Beijing on issues of mutual
interest.

Though Mr. Pillsbury advocates competing with China, he also supports
diplomacy and sticking to a trade agreement that Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump
signed in January. Some of Mr. Trump's other advisers, notably Mr.
Navarro, have advocated an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/business/china-decoupling.html}{economic
``decoupling''} with China and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/23/business/economy/trump-navarro-china-trade-deal.html}{denounced
the trade deal}.

Mr. Trump oscillates wildly on China. At times, he and other officials
have asserted the idea of a cover-up by China to justify policy
decisions such as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/politics/trump-hong-kong-china-WHO.html}{cutting
funding to the World Health Organization}. When the president announced
that move in late May, he accused the W.H.O. of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/health/virus-who.html}{helping
China}cover up the initial outbreak, though the organization has denied
that.

Separately, Mr. Pompeo, the administration's most vocal China hawk,
publicly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/us/politics/coronavirus-pompeo-wuhan-china-lab.html}{pushed
an unsubstantiated theory} that the outbreak began with an accidental
lab leak in Wuhan and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/us/politics/trump-administration-intelligence-coronavirus-china.html}{asked
American spy agencies} to find evidence.

U.S. officials commissioned the new intelligence report after a
Department of Homeland Security analysis said that Chinese central
government officials hid the severity of the virus in early January to
hoard medical gear. That earlier report, an unusual attempt by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/us/politics/brian-murphy-homeland-security-protesters.html}{Homeland
Security intelligence analysts} to examine a foreign power, relied
heavily on public trade data, a senior law enforcement official said.
Several news organizations
\href{https://apnews.com/bf685dcf52125be54e030834ab7062a8}{reported}
that finding in early May, as top Trump officials were attacking China
over the virus.

Policymakers asked the entire intelligence community to examine it, and
analysts came up with the new consensus report that aimed to refine and
even correct the Homeland Security assessment.

Alexei Woltornist, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security,
said the agency ``does not comment on any allegedly leaked documents.''
The C.I.A. declined to comment.

The Chinese government has said it acted quickly to limit the spread of
the virus and to warn the world. This winter, central authorities
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/13/world/asia/china-coronavirus-xi-jinping.html}{ousted
a few local party officials}, indicating they were to blame.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19dc-virus-china2/merlin_173092875_42f4ff8e-689b-49be-8331-7ec0ee3c9222-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The new report does not diminish China's culpability, current and former
administration officials said.

Communist Party leaders oversee an authoritarian system that inhibits
local officials from freely sharing information with national-level
officials, they said, and this has had deadly consequences for the
world. It is a version of the so-called Chernobyl effect, where local
officials avoid telling central authorities about a catastrophic event
until it is far too late, American officials said.

Moreover, officials in Beijing have tried to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/asia/coronavirus-china-conspiracy-theory.html}{spread
disinformation} about the origins of the virus. The C.I.A. has said
since at least February that Chinese central officials were not sharing
everything they knew about the virus --- including a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/us/politics/cia-coronavirus-china.html}{more
accurate case count} --- or doing all they could to help the world
prepare for the pandemic.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Public reporting has revealed wrongdoing by Chinese officials at all
levels, but in different manners.

In early January, W.H.O. officials began concluding that officials in
Beijing were
\href{https://apnews.com/3c061794970661042b18d5aeaaed9fae}{hiding
information}, The Associated Press reported in June, citing internal
documents and recordings. Central officials delayed releasing the
complete virus genome and ordered laboratories to destroy virus samples.
At the same time, they were trying to get more information from reticent
Wuhan officials.

Throughout early January, officials in Wuhan and in the provincial
government tried to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/01/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html}{suppress
information} on the outbreak, in part because they feared derailing the
local annual Communist Party meeting taking place at the time.

Around mid-January, officials in Beijing began realizing the potential
devastation. On Jan. 13, Thailand said it had discovered a case of the
new coronavirus, alarming Chinese officials, who within a day began
\href{https://apnews.com/68a9e1b91de4ffc166acd6012d82c2f9}{disseminating
internal warnings} of a pending catastrophe, according to documents
obtained by The Associated Press.

A Taiwanese health official who visited a Wuhan hospital with other
outsiders from Jan. 13 to 15 said an official from Beijing told him of
\href{https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/05/06/taiwanese-official-reveals-china-suspected-human-human-transmission/}{potential
human-to-human transmission}, even though local officials were playing
down that possibility. Two days later, the Wuhan health commission
announced that a family in the city had the virus and that ``limited
human-to-human transmission cannot be ruled out.''

A turning point came when a cluster of cases emerged in the southern
city of Shenzhen, and when medical experts from Beijing visited sites in
Wuhan on Jan. 19. Back in Beijing the next morning, they told senior
officials that there was human-to-human transmission, and Mr. Xi said
later that day that the outbreak ``must be taken seriously,'' according
to a \href{https://apnews.com/3c061794970661042b18d5aeaaed9fae}{state
television report} that evening.

On Jan. 23, Beijing ordered an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/world/asia/china-coronavirus-travel.html}{extraordinary
lockdown of Wuhan}, a city of 11 million. The central government also
stopped selling masks and respirators to other countries and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/business/masks-china-coronavirus.html}{began
buying supplies} from around the world. American officials ignored the
warning signs, and the State Department even
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/19/world/asia/us-china-coronavirus.html}{flew
18 tons of donated medical gear} to China in February.

Chinese state-run news organizations
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/15/world/asia/xi-china-coronavirus.html}{published}
an internal speech on Feb. 15 indicating Mr. Xi had given instructions
on the coronavirus in a meeting of the country's top political body, the
Politburo Standing Committee, on Jan. 7. But those reports might have
been propaganda with exaggerations or falsehoods written to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/08/world/asia/xi-coronavirus-china.html}{counter
foreign news accounts} that said Mr. Xi had been absent from the
coronavirus relief effort.

The Homeland Security report from May that prompted the new U.S.
intelligence analysis went far in its assertions about Beijing.

``We assess the Chinese government intentionally concealed the severity
of Covid-19 from the international community in early January while it
stockpiled medical supplies by both increasing imports and decreasing
exports,'' the document said, according to the law enforcement official.

Homeland Security erred in using trade data to make assumptions about
the actions and strategic intentions of the Chinese government, current
and former officials said.

``This was a rush to judgment that ultimately clouds the dialogue,''
said
\href{https://www.npr.org/2017/08/08/542106975/cover-lifted-a-cia-spy-offers-his-take-on-trump-and-russia}{Daniel
Hoffman}, a former senior C.I.A. officer.

Some current and former U.S. officials say Homeland Security officials
might have pushed the report to try to curry favor with the White House
during its anti-China campaign. Chad F. Wolf, the acting secretary of
the Department of Homeland Security, has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/us/politics/trump-homeland-security.html}{sought
to mesh the agency's operations} with Mr. Trump's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/homeland-security-portland.html}{political
agenda}.

``Across the board, you're seeing a department that appears to be
utilizing its intelligence and analysis wing to solely support the
president's mind-set,'' said
\href{https://www.hks.harvard.edu/faculty/juliette-kayyem}{Juliette N.
Kayyem}, a former assistant secretary for the department.

``What people have to remember is: The department serves the homeland,''
she added. ``If they cannot rely on its intelligence about a pandemic or
about who's responsible for violence during a race riot or the
trajectory of a hurricane, what are they there for?''

Gillian Wong contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
