Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}North Korea's Leader
Had Big Economic Plans. He Admits They've Failed.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Q8o7wZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e6e870-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e70f80-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e70f81-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e73690-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e73691-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=00e7d2d0-e390-11ea-8196-a386cc1d5613}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{north-koreas-leader-had-big-economic-plans-he-admits-theyve-failed}{%
\section{North Korea's Leader Had Big Economic Plans. He Admits They've
Failed.}\label{north-koreas-leader-had-big-economic-plans-he-admits-theyve-failed}}

Kim Jong-un's blunt assessment led his country to plan a rare Workers'
Party congress for January to chart a new course after the country was
hammered by sanctions, floods and the pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/world/20nkorea-1sub/merlin_175917852_e02fd797-61aa-4169-b26c-bbd81615d893-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-choe-sang-hun/author-choe-sang-hun-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200821/north-korea-economy-coronavirus/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200821/north-korea-economy-coronavirus/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

SEOUL, South Korea --- Back in 2016, North Korea's freshly minted
leader, Kim Jong-un, held the country's first ruling Workers' Party's
congress in three decades and laid out an ambitious five-year economic
plan to build what he called a ``great socialist country'' by 2020.

On Thursday, he admitted that the plan had failed.

One calamity after another has hit North Korea since 2016. Led by the
United States, the United Nations Security Council imposed devastating
economic sanctions to retaliate against the North for its pursuit of
nuclear weapons and long-range ballistic missiles. Then came the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/world/asia/north-korea-sanctions-coronavirus.html}{global
coronavirus pandemic}, followed by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/world/asia/north-korea-floods-coronavirus.html}{massive
flood damage because of torrential rain.}

Mr. Kim now plans to chart a new course.

North Korea on Thursday announced plans to hold a rare Workers' Party
congress in January to work on a new plan to shore up its economy. Mr.
Kim's blunt admission of policy shortcomings during a formal party
meeting was an indication of how much the North Korean economy had been
hammered by the triple crises.

Plans to improve the national economy have been ``seriously delayed'' by
``severe internal and external situations and unexpected manifold
challenges,'' the Central Committee of the Workers' Party concluded
during the meeting in Pyongyang, the capital, the North's official
Korean Central News Agency reported on Thursday.

People's living standard has also ``not been improved remarkably,'' the
committee said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/world/20nkorea-2/merlin_175643118_18506d8b-26f3-4691-8079-996779f92230-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It remains rare in North Korea, if not unprecedented, under Mr. Kim's
rule to openly admit to such failures.

Mr. Kim's father, Kim Jong-il, and grandfather Kim Il-sung, who had
ruled before him like infallible, godlike figures, never did. In North
Korea, it had been a capital crime to criticize the policies of the
dynastic Kim regime that has led North Korea since its founding in the
1940s.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T09:16:44.278Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1c47e0d0}{Postal
  cost-cutting has slowed the delivery of medicine, exacerbating
  pandemic limitations for the chronically ill.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

But since he came to power, the younger Mr. Kim has broken that
tradition, casting himself as a new type of leader, one who is
ostensibly more forthcoming in admitting and addressing economic
problems of his country. He has often
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/20/world/asia/kim-jong-un-north-korea-economy-nuclear-talks.html}{criticized
his state-run factories and construction projects} for being
unproductive as he tried to rebuild his country's economy in defiance of
international sanctions.

When he met with President Moon Jae-in of South Korea in 2018, Mr. Kim
admitted his roads and railways were in ``embarrassing'' condition,
South Korean officials said. In October, North Korea's state news media
reported that he voiced ``sharp criticism'' of the ``dependent
policies'' of his predecessors when he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/23/world/asia/north-korea-tourism.html}{ordered
the demolition} of South Korean hotels and other buildings in a resort
complex that the two countries once operated together.

Mr. Kim held his major coming-out event as leader when he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/07/world/asia/north-korea-congress.html}{held
the party congress} in 2016,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/06/world/asia/north-korea-congress.html}{the
first such meeting in 36 years.}There, he adopted his ambitious
five-year economic goals. The plan was for Mr. Kim to celebrate his
achievement during the party's 75th anniversary on Oct. 10 this year
with pomp and spectacle.

But things have hardly transpired as Mr. Kim had hoped.

North Korea had already been struggling under the stranglehold of United
Nations sanctions. Then, last week, the North Korean leader admitted
that his nation was facing ``two crises at the same time'':
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/north-korea-coronavirus.html}{fighting
the spread of the coronavirus} and coping with extensive flood damage.
But he ordered his country not to accept any international aid for fear
that outside help might bring in Covid-19.

In his no-nonsense assessment during the party meeting on Wednesday, Mr.
Kim said his country faced ``unexpected and inevitable challenges'' this
year. He also critiqued the ``achievements and shortcomings'' of his own
government, state news media reported.

When Mr. Kim took power after the death in 2011 of his father and
predecessor, he vowed to ensure that his people, long suffering from
multiple maladies, would ``never have to tighten their belt again.'' In
2016, when he adopted his economic plan, the North's economy grew 3.9
percent, the highest since a devastating famine hit the country in the
late 1990s, according to the estimates by the South's central Bank of
Korea.

The growth was largely the result of ramped-up exports of coal, iron
ore, textiles and fisheries to China. But the United Nations Security
Council banned such exports after the North rapidly expanded its weapons
programs,
testing\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/30/world/asia/north-korea-missile-test.html}{three
intercontinental ballistic missiles} in 2017, as well as what it said
was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/09/03/world/asia/north-korea-tremor-possible-6th-nuclear-test.html}{a
hydrogen bomb}.

As the sanctions tightened, the North's economy shrank by 3.5 percent in
2017, according to the Bank of Korea. It contracted by 4.1 percent the
following year, with its exports to China plummeting 86 percent.

North Korea's economy recovered slightly last year, growing 0.4 percent,
as Pyongyang invented ways of easing the pain of the sanctions, such as
smuggling banned cargo
\href{http://vod.kbs.co.kr/index.html?source=episode\&sname=vod\&stype=vod\&program_code=T2011-1097\&program_id=PS-2019197532-01-000\&section_code=05\&broadcast_complete_yn=N\&local_station_code=00\&section_sub_code=06}{across
the Chinese border at night} or between
ships\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/18/world/asia/north-korea-oil-smuggling.html}{on
the high seas.} It also exported practically anything not banned by the
sanctions: cheap watches assembled with Chinese components, artificial
eyelashes, wigs, mannequins and soccer balls.

But this year, the coronavirus forced the country to shut down the
border with China, which had accounted for more than 90 percent of the
North's external trade. North Korea's exports to China plummeted to \$27
million in the first half of this year, a 75 percent drop from a year
ago, according to the Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul.
Imports from China dropped 67 percent to \$380 million.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Fitch Solutions, which had predicted a 3.7 percent growth for the North
Korean economy this year before the Covid-19 pandemic hit the global
economy, now forecasts a record 8.5 percent contraction for the North.

Image

Disinfecting a freight train in Sinuiju, North Korea, on the Chinese
border, in a photo released in March by the North Korean state news
media.Credit...Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

As the North's economic woes deepened, Mr. Kim begun delegating some of
his governing work to his deputies, including to his only sister,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F17\%2Fworld\%2Fasia\%2Fnorth-korea-kim-yo-jong.html}{Kim
Yo-jong}, the South's National Intelligence Service said on Thursday.
She has increased her voice in the North's relations with South Korea
and the United States.

``After nine years in power, Kim Jong-un wants to lessen the stress of
governing,'' Ha Tae-keung, a South Korean lawmaker affiliated with the
conservative opposition Future United Party, said while briefing
reporters on a closed-door parliamentary hearing from top intelligence
officials. ``Another reason is that he wants to spread the blame and
lessen his political risk should policies go wrong.''

But Mr. Ha said that Mr. Kim's delegation of power did not lessen his
absolute authority or mean that Ms. Kim had been chosen as his
successor. When Mr. Kim stayed out of sight earlier this year,
sparking\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F04\%2F26\%2Fworld\%2Fasia\%2Fkim-jong-un-absence-north-korea.html}{rumors}
that he was incapacitated, Ms. Kim was cited by outside analysts as the
primary candidate to succeed her brother in the dynastic regime.

After he failed to persuade President Trump to lift sanctions during
their meeting in Vietnam in February last year, Mr. Kim said his
government would slog through the sanctions. In his New Year's message
this year, Mr. Kim asked his people to prepare to ``tighten our belts''
again.

So far, he has shown no sign of backing down on his nuclear weapons
program. He vowed to boost his nuclear weapons program further,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/31/world/asia/north-korea-kim-speech.html}{threatening
to end his moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests}.

In another aggressive move, North Korea in June
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/16/world/asia/north-korea-explosion-liaison-office.html}{blew
up an inter-Korean liaison office} --- the symbol of warm ties between
Mr. Kim and President Moon --- after blaming the South for failing to
increase inter-Korean economic exchanges.

Mr. Moon's new national security adviser, Suh Hoon, planned to meet Yang
Jiechi, a member of Beijing's Communist Party Politburo, when the
Chinese official visits the southern South Korean city of Busan on
Friday and Saturday. The two officials were expected to discuss North
Korea and a potential trip to Seoul by China's top leader, Xi Jinping,
Mr. Moon's office said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
