Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Big Donors, Small Donors:
Pete Buttigieg Has Courted Them All --- Successfully

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NrqCfk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{big-donors-small-donors-pete-buttigieg-has-courted-them-all--successfully}{%
\section{Big Donors, Small Donors: Pete Buttigieg Has Courted Them All
---
Successfully}\label{big-donors-small-donors-pete-buttigieg-has-courted-them-all--successfully}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/01/us/politics/01buttigieg-money1/01buttigieg-money1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/reid-j-epstein}{Reid J.
Epstein} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- When
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg}'s top fund-raisers gathered in Miami Beach to watch the first
Democratic debate last week, those in attendance included corporate
executives, Chelsea Clinton's wedding planner and a 19-year-old who had
started a viral Facebook page supporting the South Bend, Ind., mayor's
presidential campaign.

It was a diverse group of supporters, but not a surprising one for Mr.
Buttigieg. Through the first two fund-raising quarters, no other
Democratic presidential candidate has married traditional high-dollar
fund-raising with online small donations as successfully as Mr.
Buttigieg, whose campaign announced on Monday that he had collected
\$24.8 million from more than 294,000 donors for the three-month period
that ended Sunday.

While former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} has tapped into the party's major donors, and Senators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} have staked their candidacies on grass-roots support, Mr.
Buttigieg has risen to the top tier by doing both, after beginning his
campaign virtually unknown outside of Indiana.

His second-quarter total is likely to surpass every one of his rivals
except perhaps for Mr. Biden, according to officials briefed on the
candidates' fund-raising efforts.

Mr. Buttigieg's fund-raising haul indicates he has moved beyond
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/30/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-gay-donors.html}{the
circle of L.G.B.T. donors} who, early in the race, powered his bid as
the first gay major presidential candidate. He has put together a
wide-ranging donor base that looks more like the one Barack Obama used
when he stunned observers by keeping pace with and then eclipsing
Hillary Clinton's fund-raising at the outset of the 2008 campaign.

``They've got a badass operation,'' Rufus Gifford, the finance director
for Mr. Obama's re-election campaign, said of Mr. Buttigieg's campaign.

During the second quarter, Mr. Buttigieg attended about 50 high-dollar
fund-raising events, for which ticket prices typically run \$2,800, the
maximum individual contribution allowed by federal law in the primary.
But he also held 20 ``grass-roots'' fund-raising events, for which
ticket prices start as low as \$15.

And from March 24 to June 22, the Buttigieg campaign's combined spending
on digital advertising on Facebook and Google (\$1.3 million) exceeded
that of any other Democratic candidate except Mr. Biden and Ms. Warren,
according to Bully Pulpit Interactive, a Democratic digital
communications firm.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/02/us/elections/candidate-money-donors-q2.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/02/us/candidate-money-donors-q2-promo-1562100333105/candidate-money-donors-q2-promo-1562100333105-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{which-2020-democrats-raised-the-most-money-this-spring}{%
\subsection{Which 2020 Democrats Raised the Most Money This
Spring?}\label{which-2020-democrats-raised-the-most-money-this-spring}}

We're keeping track as the candidates file their second quarter
fund-raising totals.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?smid=rd?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{Sign
up for our politics newsletter}} \emph{and join the conversation around
the 2020 presidential race.}{]}

Mr. Buttigieg has wooed tech executives in Silicon Valley and, as a
former Navy reservist in Afghanistan, has courted military veterans. He
is also popular among educated liberals on the coasts; this weekend he
will hold fund-raisers on Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.

Despite his success, Mr. Buttigieg's strategy presents some challenges.
Accepting Silicon Valley money has become controversial at a time when
big tech companies are under siege for lapses with privacy and
misinformation. And his popularity with wealthy white liberals is great
for fund-raising but so far has not helped him win much support from
people of color, without whom no candidate can survive key early-primary
contests in the South and West.

He still faces a big challenge in expanding his support among black
voters, a critical constituency. He has recently been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/28/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-debate-south-bend.html}{confronted
by a local crisis}, the fatal shooting of a black man by a white police
officer in South Bend, which has tested his leadership.

Mr. Buttigieg had more than 230,000 new donors in the second quarter,
bringing his total to more than 400,000, his campaign said. The average
contribution over the course of his campaign has been \$47.42, according
to his team. His campaign said it now had more than \$22.6 million in
cash on hand. Of that, \$832,000 is earmarked for the general election
and cannot be used in the primary.

``This fund-raising report shows that Pete's message is resonating with
Americans, and it's proof that we are building an organization that can
compete,'' Mike Schmuhl, his campaign manager, said in an early-morning
email to supporters announcing the fund-raising total.

Mr. Buttigieg's rivals have mostly favored one fund-raising approach or
the other. Mr. Biden has concentrated his efforts on the broad network
of Obama donors in major cities, but the 76-year-old former vice
president hasn't energized the small-dollar grass-roots world. Mr.
Sanders and Ms. Warren have sworn off closed-door big-donor events as a
political strategy aimed at creating a wider universe of small donors.

Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Kamala
Harris} of California, who raised the second-highest amount of money
during the year's first reporting period, which ended March 31, is
expected to have raised less in the second quarter than the \$24.8
million that Mr. Buttigieg announced Monday.

Last week in Miami, the Buttigieg campaign hosted a de facto retreat for
the campaign's top fund-raisers, which included strategy sessions with
Mr. Buttigieg at the Miami Hilton and a debate watch party at the Miami
Beach home of the home-furnishings entrepreneur Ira Statfeld.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/09/us/democratic-polls-promo-1560481207024/democratic-polls-promo-1560481207024-articleLarge-v30.png}

\hypertarget{which-democrats-are-leading-the-2020-presidential-race}{%
\subsection{Which Democrats Are Leading the 2020 Presidential
Race?}\label{which-democrats-are-leading-the-2020-presidential-race}}

There are two Democrats running for president. Here's the latest data to
track how the candidates are doing.

The watch party included Mr. Buttigieg's top fund-raising officials,
known on his campaign as ``investment directors'': Anthony Mercurio, a
veteran of Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign and Michael Bloomberg's gun
control group, and Swati Mylavarapu, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist
who went to Harvard with Mr. Buttigieg and attended Oxford with him when
they were Rhodes scholars.

Also in attendance was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/22/us/politics/youth-voters-2020.html}{Lucas
Carroll, a Boston College undergraduate} who in January started a ``Pete
Buttigieg for President'' Facebook page and then used it to raise about
\$35,000 for the campaign. Between his freshman and sophomore years, Mr.
Carroll is spending the summer as a fund-raising intern at Mr.
Buttigieg's headquarters in South Bend.

``It's a young campaign,'' said Bryan Rafanelli, a Democratic
fund-raising veteran from Boston who planned Chelsea Clinton's 2011
wedding and hosted a Fenway Park event for Mr. Buttigieg. ``This wasn't
a room filled with Obama and Clinton finance people.''

But there are a lot of Obama fund-raisers involved, many of them former
ambassadors.

Tod Sedgwick, who was Mr. Obama's ambassador to Slovakia, is among a
group of former diplomats who are bundling contributions for Mr.
Buttigieg. David Jacobson, Mr. Obama's ambassador to Canada, is hosting
a fund-raiser for Mr. Buttigieg in Chicago on Tuesday. Timothy Broas
(the Netherlands), John Phillips (Italy) and Bill Eacho (Austria) have
also raised money for Mr. Buttigieg.

``Obama tended to have the larger bundlers, and they would have campaign
events every quarter,'' Mr. Sedgwick said. ``These guys have a national
investment council, and they pretty much add anyone who they think is
making an effort to raise money.''

After suspending most of his fund-raising schedule the last two weeks to
attend to protests over the police shooting and to prepare for the
debate, Mr. Buttigieg is back on the road this week. Mr. Jacobson is
hosting a high-dollar event in Chicago on Tuesday. In Massachusetts,
there is \href{https://secure.actblue.com/donate/7.6.19_grassroots_mv}{a
\$2,800-per-ticket event Friday in Provincetown}, a \$250 brunch
Saturday on Nantucket and a \$2,800 breakfast on Nantucket. Those
high-dollar events are bracketed around a
\href{https://secure.actblue.com/donate/7.6.19_grassroots_mv}{``grass-roots''
event Saturday afternoon} on Martha's Vineyard for which tickets start
at \$15.

The campaign raised \$1.1 million from grass-roots events and another
\$550,000 from small-dollar bundlers in the second quarter, an official
said.

``They are innovating every single minute of every single day,'' said
Brendan Mullen, a cybersecurity executive who was the Democratic nominee
for South Bend's House seat in 2012 and who attended the campaign's
Miami debate events. ``I've never seen anything scale at the speed they
are. It's scaling faster than any start-up in the history of America.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/01/us/politics/01q2-pete/01dems-money-pete-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Buttigieg's finance team has grown from three employees at its
outset to 28, with staff members in most major markets and several
devoted to online and grass-roots events.

When he began his campaign, Mr. Buttigieg would tell prospective donors
he was not
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/30/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-gay-donors.html}{asking
for monogamy}'' in terms of whose campaign they supported. In recent
weeks, his top fund-raising aides have been trying to pick off donors
and bundlers who have committed to other candidates in the race,
offering private meetings with Mr. Buttigieg.

Kevin Johnson, a West Point graduate and renewable energy executive who
is co-hosting the Chicago fund-raiser with Mr. Jacobson, said Mr.
Buttigieg had tapped into the network of military veterans.

``I'm not a historical donor like other folks, like Mr. Jacobson, and
the campaign has welcomed me in,'' Mr. Johnson said. ``I'm helping to
bring in other veterans of color, and other veteran entrepreneurs of
color that Pete's message speaks to.''

Mr. Buttigieg's fund-raising totals are short of what Mr. Obama and Mrs.
Clinton had raised at the same juncture of their 2008 campaigns. During
the second quarter of 2007,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/07/17/us/politics/17obama.html}{Mr.
Obama collected \$33 million}, while Mrs. Clinton took in \$27 million.
Both were more widely known than Mr. Buttigieg.

Still, Mr. Buttigieg's total for the most recent quarter is more than
three times what he raised
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/01/us/politics/pete-buttiegieg-fundraising.html}{in
the first quarter}, \$7.1 million, which itself was an
attention-grabbing figure that offered early evidence that his candidacy
was catching on.

Mr. Buttigieg is the first Democratic candidate to announce his
fund-raising total for the second quarter. Other candidates will most
likely publicize their numbers in the coming days, and all of them are
required to report their fund-raising to the Federal Election Commission
by July 15.

Mr. Buttigieg's fund-raising pace is likely to allow him to remain in
the race as long as he wants, a stunning turn of events for a candidate
who began his exploratory campaign with a list of 24,000 email addresses
and a staff of five people.

``Our dogs have more followers now on social media than I had in January
when we got into this,'' Mr. Buttigieg said during a recent interview.
``The trajectory has been dizzying. We actually needed to level off,
because if it stays that dizzying, we'll lose our balance.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 7, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall presidential campaign
    centered on Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{two
    pivotal states for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
