Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Former Trump Aides Charged
as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With Russia

\url{https://nyti.ms/2yXheVO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{former-trump-aides-charged-as-prosecutors-reveal-new-campaign-ties-with-russia}{%
\section{Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign
Ties With
Russia}\label{former-trump-aides-charged-as-prosecutors-reveal-new-campaign-ties-with-russia}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/08/22/us/politics/22dc-manafortverdict/17dc-manafortverdict-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/matt-apuzzo}{Matt Apuzzo},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/adam-goldman}{Adam Goldman},
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-s-schmidt}{Michael S. Schmidt}
and \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-rosenberg}{Matthew
Rosenberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 30, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20171031/paul-manafort-indicted/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/usa/20171031/paul-manafort-indicted/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

WASHINGTON --- The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, announced
charges on Monday against three advisers to President Trump's campaign
and laid out the most explicit evidence to date that his campaign was
eager to coordinate with the Russian government to damage his rival,
Hillary Clinton.

The former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, surrendered to the F.B.I.
and pleaded not guilty to charges that he laundered millions of dollars
through overseas shell companies --- using the money to buy luxury cars,
real estate, antique rugs and expensive clothes.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/16/us/politics/rick-gates-russia.html}{Rick
Gates}, Mr. Manafort's longtime associate as well as a campaign adviser,
was also charged and turned himself in.

But information that could prove most politically damaging to Mr. Trump
came an hour later, when Mr. Mueller announced that George Papadopoulos,
a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/30/us/politics/george-papadopoulos-russia-trump.html}{had
pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I.} and was cooperating with
investigators. In court documents released on Monday, federal
investigators said they suspected that Russian intelligence services had
used intermediaries to contact Mr. Papadopoulos to gain influence with
the campaign, offering ``dirt'' on Mrs. Clinton in April 2016 in the
form of ``thousands of emails.''

Mr. Papadopoulos secretly pleaded guilty weeks ago to lying to the
F.B.I. about those contacts and has been cooperating with Mr. Mueller's
prosecutors for months.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/31/autossell/img/img-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Monday's dramatic announcements capped months of speculation about which
of Mr. Trump's campaign advisers might be first to be charged by Mr.
Mueller, and they seemed to be a sign that the special counsel's
investigation is nowhere close to complete.

``There's a large-scale, ongoing investigation of which this case is a
small part,'' Aaron S.J. Zelinsky, a prosecutor on Mr. Mueller's team,
said at Mr. Papadopoulos's plea hearing this month. The transcript of
the hearing was released on Monday.

It is now clear, from Mr. Papadopoulos's admission and emails related to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/11/us/politics/trump-russia-email-clinton.html}{a
meeting at Trump Tower in June 2016}, that the Russian government
offered help to Mr. Trump's candidacy and campaign officials were
willing to take it.

The United States has concluded that President Vladimir V. Putin of
Russia tried to tip the outcome of the 2016 election in favor of Mr.
Trump. As part of that effort, Russian operatives
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/15/us/politics/russian-hackers-dnc-trump.html}{hacked}
Democratic accounts and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/23/us/politics/dnc-emails-sanders-clinton.html}{released
a trove of embarrassing emails} related to Mrs. Clinton's campaign. Mr.
Mueller and his team are investigating whether anyone close to Mr. Trump
participated in that effort.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/30/us/politics/document-paul-manafort-rick-gates-indictment.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/30/us/politics/image-paul-manafort-rick-gates-indictment/image-paul-manafort-rick-gates-indictment-articleLarge.gif}

\hypertarget{read-the-charges-against-paul-manafort-and-rick-gates}{%
\subsection{Read the Charges Against Paul Manafort and Rick
Gates}\label{read-the-charges-against-paul-manafort-and-rick-gates}}

Paul Manafort, President Trump's former campaign chairman, was indicted
on charges including conspiracy, money laundering and other charges. Mr.
Manafort's business associate, Rick Gates, was also charged.

The announcements rippled across Washington, affecting both political
parties. The powerful Democratic lobbyist Tony Podesta quit his lobbying
firm Monday. The firm, the Podesta Group, was hired to do lobbying work
on behalf of Ukraine, work that is at the heart of Mr. Manafort's
indictment.

The tax and money laundering case against Mr. Manafort describes a
complicated scheme in which
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/15/world/europe/ukraine-paul-manafort-viktor-yanukovych.html}{he
lobbied for a pro-Russia party in Ukraine} and its leader, Viktor F.
Yanukovych, and hid proceeds in bank accounts in Cyprus, the Grenadines
and elsewhere. Prosecutors say he laundered more than \$18 million, and
spent the money extravagantly. A home improvement company in the
Hamptons was paid nearly \$5.5 million, according to the indictment.
More than \$1.3 million more went to clothing stores in New York and
Beverly Hills, Calif.

Mr. Manafort bought a \$3 million brownstone in Carroll Gardens in
Brooklyn and a \$2.8 million condominium in SoHo, prosecutors said.
``Manafort used his hidden overseas wealth to enjoy a lavish lifestyle
in the United States without paying taxes on that income,''
\href{https://www.justice.gov/file/1007271/download}{the indictment
reads}. He was also charged with failing to register as a foreign
lobbyist.

The charges carry the potential for roughly 20 years in prison, putting
pressure on Mr. Manafort to provide information on others in exchange
for leniency. Among other things, Mr. Manafort could shed light on how
widely in the campaign it was known that Russia had damaging information
on Mrs. Clinton. A senior White House lawyer, Ty Cobb,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/28/us/politics/ty-cobb-trump-lawyer-new-washington.html}{said
last week} that the president was confident that Mr. Manafort had no
damaging information about him.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/31/us/politics/manafort-mueller-money-laundering-fraud.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/31/us/politics/manafort-mueller-money-laundering-fraud-1509415393117/manafort-mueller-money-laundering-fraud-1509415393117-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{how-a-federal-inquiry-says-paul-manafort-laundered-18-million-and-how-he-spent-it}{%
\subsection{How a Federal Inquiry Says Paul Manafort Laundered \$18
Million, and How He Spent
It}\label{how-a-federal-inquiry-says-paul-manafort-laundered-18-million-and-how-he-spent-it}}

President Trump's former campaign chairman is charged with channeling
large sums of money from offshore bank accounts to pay for goods,
services and real estate in the United States.

In a court appearance on Monday, Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates pleaded not
guilty and were placed under house arrest on multimillion-dollar bonds.
Mr. Papadopoulos is awaiting sentencing.

Mr. Manafort's lawyer, Kevin Downing, called the money laundering
charges ``ridiculous'' and noted that in the past half-century,
prosecutors have charged only a handful of people with flouting foreign
lobbying rules. Such violations are normally handled as an
administrative matter. Mr. Manafort's Ukraine lobbying ``ended in 2014,
two years before Mr. Manafort served in the Trump campaign,'' Mr.
Downing said.

Lawyers for Mr. Papadopoulos declined to comment.

While the indictment paints an unflattering picture of the man Mr. Trump
tapped to run his campaign, the allegations long predate his involvement
in the presidential race. Mr. Trump seized on that fact,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/925006418989715456}{declaring
on Twitter} that ``there is NO COLLUSION!''

But as Mr. Trump typed out that message, Mr. Mueller's team was
unsealing documents related to Mr. Papadopoulos that directly undermined
the president's claim.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/31/us/Papadopoulos-doc/Papadopoulos-doc-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump called Mr. Papadopoulos an ``excellent guy'' when he announced
his foreign policy team in March 2016.

On Monday, however, White House officials described him as someone who
played an insignificant role in the campaign.

``Look, this individual was a member of a volunteer advisory council
that met one time over the course of a year,'' said Sarah Huckabee
Sanders, the White House press secretary. ``I'm not here to speak on
behalf of the thousands of people that may have volunteered on the
campaign.''

In March 2016, while traveling in Italy, Mr. Papadopoulos met a
London-based professor of diplomacy who has deep ties to the Russian
government. The professor took interest in Mr. Papadopoulos ``because of
his status with the campaign,''
\href{https://www.justice.gov/file/1007336/download}{court documents
said}. The professor is Joseph Mifsud, according to a Senate aide
familiar with emails in which Mr. Mifsud is mentioned. Two Senate
committees are conducting Russia inquiries of their own, and
investigators have been poring over thousands of emails produced by the
Trump campaign.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/30/us/politics/papadopoulos-russia-trump.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/10/30/us/papadapoulos-russia-trump-1509398528751/papadapoulos-russia-trump-1509398528751-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{how-a-trump-adviser-repeatedly-sought-a-meeting-with-russia}{%
\subsection{How a Trump Adviser Repeatedly Sought a Meeting With
Russia}\label{how-a-trump-adviser-repeatedly-sought-a-meeting-with-russia}}

George Papadopoulos, an adviser to the Trump campaign, contacted
campaign officials at least 11 times from March to June 2016 about a
potential meeting.

Mr. Mifsud introduced Mr. Papadopoulos to others, including someone with
ties to the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a woman who he
believed was a relative of Mr. Putin. Mr. Papadopoulos repeatedly tried
to arrange a meeting between the Trump campaign and Russian government
officials, court records show.

``We are all very excited by the possibility of a good relationship with
Mr. Trump,'' the woman, who was not identified, told Mr. Papadopoulos in
an email. She was not actually a relative of Mr. Putin, according to
court documents.

Campaign officials knew that Mr. Papadopoulos was developing contacts in
Russia, court documents show.

He repeatedly tried to arrange a formal meeting for Mr. Trump in Russia.
Among those in the campaign who knew about the contacts was Sam Clovis,
who helped supervise the foreign-policy team, according to a former
campaign aide. Mr. Clovis could not be reached for comment.

Ultimately, senior campaign officials said that Mr. Trump should not
make the trip and leave it to ``someone low level in the campaign so as
not to send any signal,'' according to an email cited in court papers.
No campaign official made a formal trip to Russia.

When F.B.I. agents approached Mr. Papadopoulos on Jan. 27, he lied about
his Russian contacts, according to court documents. That day, Mr. Trump
invited the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, to dinner at the White
House and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/11/us/politics/trump-comey-firing.html}{asked
him to pledge loyalty}, according to notes Mr. Comey took at the time.

As the F.B.I. scrutiny continued, Mr. Papadopoulos changed his phone
number and deleted his Facebook account, which he had used to
communicate with the Russians. The F.B.I. has obtained emails, text
messages, and the transcript of chats on Facebook and Skype records as
part of its investigation.

F.B.I. agents quietly arrested Mr. Papadopoulos at Dulles International
Airport outside Washington on July 27, a day after agents raided Mr.
Manafort's Virginia home. The Justice Department disclosed on Monday
that Mr. Manafort had withheld evidence from Mr. Mueller that was
discovered during that raid.

With the charges against Mr. Manafort, Mr. Mueller has taken a broad
view of his mandate. He was tapped to investigate Russian election
meddling, whether anyone around Mr. Trump was involved and other crimes
that followed from that investigation. The charges against Mr. Manafort
do not directly relate to Mr. Trump or the campaign. Mr. Manafort had
been under investigation in New York and Virginia until Mr. Mueller was
appointed and assumed control.

The special counsel has struck
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/18/us/politics/mueller-russia-investigation.html?_r=0}{an
aggressive posture in the case}, and Monday's charges were no exception.
The Justice Department often invites lawyers to meet and discuss
potential indictments. It is both an opportunity for lawyers to argue
for leniency, and for prosecutors to spot potential weaknesses in their
case.

But on Friday night, people close to Mr. Manafort and Mr. Gates and
lawyers involved in the investigation said they had received no
indication that an indictment against them was imminent.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
