Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}`Extremely Evil
Misconduct': Thailand's Palace Intrigue Spills Into View

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NDC04s}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{extremely-evil-misconduct-thailands-palace-intrigue-spills-into-view}{%
\section{`Extremely Evil Misconduct': Thailand's Palace Intrigue Spills
Into
View}\label{extremely-evil-misconduct-thailands-palace-intrigue-spills-into-view}}

Six months after King Maha Vajiralongkorn's coronation, aide after aide
has been ousted and denounced, even as he moves to bolster his
authority.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/07/world/07thailand-king-p1/merlin_163171704_b5e895f8-a461-4cc3-8dda-286b31bc68f0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hannah-beech}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/08/multimedia/author-hannah-beech/author-hannah-beech-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/hannah-beech}{Hannah
Beech}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 6, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20191106/thailand-king-consort-wives/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20191106/thailand-king-consort-wives/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2019/11/07/espanol/mundo/tailandia-monarquia-escandalos.html}{Leer
en español}

BANGKOK --- The denunciations have swirled through Thailand's gilded
palaces with the rhetorical extravagance of a Shakespearean history.

The official consort to the king was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/21/world/asia/king-thailand-royal-consort.html?module=inline}{accused
of trying to upstage the queen} and ``undermining the nation,'' leading
to the stripping of her royal titles after less than three months on the
job.

A grand chamberlain was removed for ``severely immoral acts'' that
allegedly included forcing a paramour to undergo an abortion.

And last week, four more courtiers, two of whom were described as
bedchamber pages, were removed for
``\href{http://www.ratchakitcha.soc.go.th/DATA/PDF/2562/B/057/T_0001.PDF}{extremely
evil misconduct}.''

\emph{{[}Read:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/27/world/asia/thailand-consort-king.html?rref=collection\%2Fbyline\%2Fhannah-beech}{\emph{The
Thai palace posted dozens of unusual photos of the King's consort. Then
the website went down.}}\emph{{]}}

Nearly half a year ago, King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun
was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/04/world/asia/thailand-king-maha-vajiralongkorn.html}{crowned
in a lavish spectacle} culminating in the placement of a 16-pound crown
on his head. Since then the 67-year-old king has assembled a court whose
intrigue frequently spills onto the pages of the Royal Thai Government
Gazette, which normally records more anodyne matters.

The explosive details of the palace purges stand in contrast to the
reserved tenor of the seven-decade reign of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/14/world/asia/thai-king-bhumibol-adulyadej-dies.html?searchResultPosition=3\&module=inline}{King
Bhumibol Adulyadej}, his father. At the time of his death in 2016, King
Bhumibol was the world's longest-serving royal. He did not leave
Thailand for decades, and he was often pictured in rice paddies or
factories with his subjects.

King Maha Vajiralongkorn spends much of his time in Germany and has not
continued the tradition of communing with ordinary Thais, at least in
photos that have been made public. The king has taken high-profile steps
that appear to have bolstered his authority.

Last year, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/17/world/asia/thailand-king-assets.html}{assumed
oversight over the Crown Property Bureau}, whose fortune, believed to be
upward of \$30 billion, helps make him one of the world's wealthiest
royals.

In February, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/08/world/asia/thailand-prime-minister-princess.html}{quashed
the political candidacy} of his elder sister, Ubolratana Rajakanya
Sirivadhana Varnavadi, calling her attempt to run for prime minister
``highly inappropriate.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/01/world/00thailand-king-3/merlin_151312146_7d17c853-2422-4d0a-8e6f-1825592a45f7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Last month, he ordered two infantry units in Bangkok, the capital, moved
from normal military command to that of his royal corps.

``This direct taking of control is something that we haven't seen since
the end of absolute monarchy in 1932,'' said
\href{https://history.cornell.edu/tamara-loos}{Tamara Loos}, the chair
of the history department at Cornell University and an expert on Thai
monarchic traditions. ``It's a slide toward something that is very
different from his father's behind-the-scenes way of operating.''

The recent announcement that four palace insiders were being stripped of
their royal and military titles capped a tumultuous week, which began
when the king's official companion was publicly purged.

On Oct. 21, an announcement in the Royal Thai Government Gazette stated
that Sineenat Wongvajirapakdi had been divested of her title of noble
consort. She was accused of ``ingratitude'' and of scheming against
Queen Suthida Vajiralongkorn Na Ayudhya, the king's fourth wife.

Ms. Sineenat's actions ``caused the royal household staff to be
discordant,'' the official statement said.

Image

Sineenat Wongvajirapakdi was briefly the king's noble consort, a title
that had not been used in more than 80 years.~Credit...Thailand Royal
Office

A nursing college graduate, Ms. Sineenat had enjoyed her official
position, which is separate from that of wife, for only a matter of
weeks. The title of noble consort had not been used since Thailand
abolished absolute monarchy and polygamy more than eight decades ago.

Two days after Ms. Sineenat was stripped of her title, several other
courtiers, including a senior
\href{http://www.ratchakitcha.soc.go.th/DATA/PDF/2562/B/056/T_0003.PDF}{representative
of the king in many ceremonies}, a nurse and a veterinarian from the
royal canine division were dismissed for what was termed ``severely evil
misconduct using their government positions to seek benefits for
themselves.''

Similar phrasing was used last week to describe the purported misdeeds
of four others. Two of the courtiers were accused of adultery, which was
deemed ``an offense of the principles of the royal household staff.''

``You wouldn't imagine that this is the language of a government
gazette,'' Ms. Loos said. ``It's more like a tabloid.''

The king, who is known in some official pronouncements as ``the sacred
lord over all heads,'' has been married four times. His first wife, who
is also his first cousin, retained the title of princess even after
their divorce in 1991. They had one daughter.

Married

King Maha Vajiralongkorn

Divorced

Princess Soamsawali

Queen

Suthida

Sujarinee

Srirasmi

1977

'96

'94

2001

'14

Children

born

'19

King Maha Vajiralongkorn had five children with Sujarinee while he was
still married to his first wife.

The noble consort Sineenat was purged in October.

Married

King Maha Vajiralongkorn

Divorced

Princess Soamsawali

Queen

Suthida

Sujarinee

Srirasmi

'77

'94

'96

2001

'14

Children

born

'19

King Vajiralongkorn had five children with Sujarinee while he was still
married to his first wife.

The noble consort Sineenat was purged in October.

King Maha Vajiralongkorn

Married

'77

Children born

King Vajiralongkorn had five children with Sujarinee while he was still
married to his first wife.

Princess Soamsawali

Divorced

'94

Sujarinee

'96

2001

Srirasmi

The noble consort Sineenat was purged in October.

'14

Queen Suthida

'19

Photo by Apichart Weerawong/Associated Press

By The New York Times

His second wife, with whom he had five children while still married to
his first wife, was an actress. She and their four sons live overseas,
but their daughter, Sirivannavari Nariratana, carries out royal duties
in Thailand.

A fashion designer, Princess Sirivannavari made headlines last year
after a Thai entertainment host who panned a gown she had designed was
threatened with criminal prosecution.

Thailand has strict laws against criticism of the royal family.
Offenders can be sentenced to up to 15 years in prison for each count of
lèse-majesté. Because complaints can be lodged by anyone, not only the
police, human rights groups say the law, meant to protect the monarchy,
has been twisted to suppress political dissent.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, multiple academics and political commentators in
Thailand declined to comment on the slew of firings recorded in the
Royal Thai Government Gazette.

The king's third wife, Srirasmi Suwadee, was considered a princess until
she and at least nine of her relatives were purged five years ago, after
the palace alleged that they had used their royal connections to
illegally burnish their wealth. Ms. Srirasmi's parents were jailed for
lèse-majesté.

Image

Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha at a celebration of the king's birthday
in July.Credit...Lillian Suwanrumpha/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

The pair had one son, Dipangkorn Rasmijoti, who is considered the heir
apparent to the throne.

The king's marriage to his fourth wife, Queen Suthida, a former flight
attendant, was made public in May, three days before he was crowned.

It was on the king's birthday this year, July 28, that he named Ms.
Sineenat his noble consort.

The Royal Household Bureau later
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/27/world/asia/thailand-consort-king.html}{released
pictures} of the two together, including images of Ms. Sineenat flying a
plane while wearing a camouflage-printed sports bra and another of her
cradling a white poodle, which was wearing what appeared to be a black
leather onesie.

The king has owned a number of pet poodles, one of which was granted the
military rank of air chief marshal.

Several women associated with the king have also attained high military
positions. Queen Suthida was named a general in the king's bodyguard
corps, while Ms. Sineenat was a major general before her downfall.

Ryn Jirenuwat contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
