Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}The Jamal
Khashoggi Case: Suspects Had Ties to Saudi Crown Prince

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QP4uYY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-jamal-khashoggi-case-suspects-had-ties-to-saudi-crown-prince}{%
\section{The Jamal Khashoggi Case: Suspects Had Ties to Saudi Crown
Prince}\label{the-jamal-khashoggi-case-suspects-had-ties-to-saudi-crown-prince}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-d-kirkpatrick}{David D.
Kirkpatrick}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/malachy-browne}{Malachy
Browne}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-hubbard}{Ben Hubbard} and
David Botti

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 16, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ISTANBUL --- One of the suspects identified by Turkey in the
disappearance of the Saudi dissident
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/us/politics/khashoggi-trump-iran-sanctions.html}{Jamal
Khashoggi} was a frequent companion of Crown Prince
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/us/politics/khashoggi-trump-iran-sanctions.html}{Mohammed
bin Salman}--- seen disembarking from airplanes with him in Paris and
Madrid and photographed standing guard during his visits this year to
Houston, Boston and the United Nations.

Three others are linked by witnesses and other records to the Saudi
crown prince's security detail.

A fifth is a forensic doctor who holds senior positions in the Saudi
Interior Ministry and medical establishment, a figure of such stature
that he could be directed only by a high-ranking Saudi authority.

If, as the Turkish authorities say, these men were present at the Saudi
Consulate in Istanbul where Mr. Khashoggi disappeared on Oct. 2, they
might provide a direct link between what happened and Prince Mohammed.
That would undercut any suggestion that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/us/politics/khashoggi-trump-iran-sanctions.html}{Mr.
Khashoggi} died in a rogue operation unsanctioned by the crown prince.
Their connection to him could also make it more difficult for the White
House and Congress to accept such an explanation.

The New York Times has confirmed independently that at least nine of 15
suspects identified by Turkish authorities worked for the Saudi security
services, military or other government ministries. One of them, Maher
Abdulaziz Mutreb, was a diplomat assigned to the Saudi Embassy in London
in 2007, according to a British diplomatic roster. He traveled
extensively with the crown prince, perhaps as a bodyguard.

How much blame for Mr. Khashoggi's disappearance or death settles on the
33-year-old crown prince has become a decisive factor in his standing in
the eyes of the West and within the royal family.

The prince has presented himself as a reformer intent on opening up the
kingdom's economy and culture, and has used that image to try to
influence White House policy in the region and to woo Western investors
to help diversify the Saudi economy.

But the international revulsion at the reported assassination and
mutilation of a single newspaper columnist --- Mr. Khashoggi, who wrote
for The Washington Post --- has already sullied that image far more than
previous missteps by the crown prince, from miring his country in a
catastrophic war in Yemen to kidnapping the prime minister of Lebanon.

The crown prince and his father, King Salman, have denied any knowledge
of Mr. Khashoggi's whereabouts, repeatedly asserting that he left the
consulate freely. Saudi officials did not respond to requests for
comment for this article.

But in the last few days, as major American businesses have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/15/business/dealbook/blackstone-blackrock-saudi-conference.html}{withdrawn
from a marquee investment conference} in Riyadh and members of Congress
have stepped up calls for sanctions, the United States, Turkey and Saudi
Arabia appear to have been searching for a face-saving way out.

The royal court was expected to acknowledge that Mr. Khashoggi was
killed in the consulate, and to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/15/us/politics/trump-saudi-king-journalist-khashoggi.html}{blame
an intelligence agent} for botching an operation to interrogate Mr.
Khashoggi that ended up killing him.

President Trump floated the possibility on Monday that Mr. Khashoggi was
the victim of ``rogue killers.''

But such explanations would run up against a host of hard-to-explain
obstacles.

The suspects' positions in the Saudi government and their links to the
crown prince could make it more difficult to absolve him of
responsibility.

The presence of a forensic doctor who specializes in autopsies suggests
the operation may have had a lethal intent from the start.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/17/world/17saudi-2/17saudi-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Turkish officials have said they possess evidence that the 15 Saudi
agents flew into Istanbul on Oct. 2, assassinated Mr. Khashoggi,
dismembered his body with a bone saw they had brought for the purpose,
and flew out the same day. Records show that two private jets chartered
by a Saudi company with close ties to the Saudi crown prince and
Interior Ministry arrived and left Istanbul on the day of Mr.
Khashoggi's disappearance.

Turkish officials said Mr. Khashoggi was killed within two hours of his
arrival at the consulate. That timeline would not have allowed much time
for an interrogation to go awry.

The Times gathered more information about the suspects using facial
recognition, publicly available records, social media profiles, a
database of Saudi cellphone numbers, Saudi news reports, leaked Saudi
government documents and in some cases the accounts of witnesses in
Saudi Arabia and countries the crown prince has visited.

Mr. Mutreb, the former diplomat in London, was photographed emerging
from airplanes with Prince Mohammed on recent trips to Madrid and Paris.
He was also photographed in Houston, Boston and the United Nations
during the crown prince's visits there, often glowering as he surveyed a
crowd.

A French professional who has worked with the Saudi royal family
identified a second suspect, Abdulaziz Mohammed al-Hawsawi, as a member
of the security team that travels with the crown prince.

A Saudi news outlet reported that someone with the same name as a third
suspect, Thaar Ghaleb al-Harbi, was promoted last year to the rank of
lieutenant in the Saudi royal guard for bravery in the defense of Prince
Mohammed's palace in Jeddah.

A fourth suspect traveled with a passport bearing the name of another
member of the royal guard, Muhammed Saad Alzahrani. A search of the name
in \href{https://www.menom3ay.com/home.php}{Menom3ay}, an app popular in
Saudi Arabia that allows users to see the names other users have
associated with certain phone numbers, identified him as a member of the
royal guard. A guard wearing a name tag with that name appears in
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U9hr9z5jiA\&feature=youtu.be\&t=68}{a
video from 2017} standing next to Prince Mohammed.

Image

A Saudi investigative delegation entered the consulate in Istanbul on
Monday before Turkish investigators arrived.Credit...Ozan Kose/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

Members of the royal guard or aides who traveled with the crown prince
may not report directly to him and may sometimes take on other duties.
It is possible that some could have been recruited for an expedition to
capture or interrogate Mr. Khashoggi, perhaps led by a senior
intelligence official. But the presence among the suspects of an autopsy
expert, Dr. Salah al-Tubaigy, suggests that killing might have been part
of the original plan.

Dr. Tubaigy, who maintained a presence on several social media
platforms, identified himself on his Twitter account as the head of the
Saudi Scientific Council of Forensics and held lofty positions in the
kingdom's premier medical school as well as in its Interior Ministry. He
studied at the University of Glasgow and in 2015 he spent three months
in Australia as a visiting forensic pathologist at the Victorian
Institute of Forensic Medicine. His published writings include works on
dissection and mobile autopsies.

Although there is no public record of a relationship between him and the
royal court, such a senior figure in the Saudi medical establishment was
unlikely to join a rogue expedition organized by an underling.

Dr. Tubaigy, whose name first appeared among reports of the suspects
several days ago, has not publicly addressed the allegations. None of
the suspects could be reached for comment.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
