Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{before--after-the-black-parade}{%
\section{Before \& After `The Black
Parade'}\label{before--after-the-black-parade}}

By Christopher R. Weingarten and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aliza-aufrichtig}{Aliza
Aufrichtig}Dec. 18, 2019

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{before--after}{%
\section{Before \& After}\label{before--after}}

`The Black Parade'

My Chemical Romance's 2006 concept album combined punk, glam and
Broadway. As the band ends a hiatus, we look back at the music that
fueled it --- and was inspired by it.

By Christopher R. Weingarten\\
Produced by Aliza Aufrichtig

December 18, 2019

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/clove_smoke_catharsis_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/all_the_good_girls_go_to_hell_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/cabaret_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/goner_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/flying_high_again_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/chemical_world_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_headmasters_ritual_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/beat_my_head_against_the_wall_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/awful_things_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/yellow_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/today_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/its_a_hard_knock_life_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/jesus_of_suburbia_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/somebody_told_me_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/astro_zombies_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/time_warp_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/alive_with_the_glory_of_love_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mr_blue_sky_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/sgt_peppers_lonely_hearts_club_band_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/in_the_flesh_medium.jpg}
\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/marching_man.gif}

In 2006, a gaggle of Jersey boys obsessed with horror movies, comic
books and death made an audacious piece of goth-punk Broadway.
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2006/10/22/arts/music/22mich.html}{The
Black Parade},'' the third album by My Chemical Romance, was a
full-fledged rock opera --- the type of shameless, pretentious statement
that punk was ostensibly created to destroy. Fueled by the Beatles,
Queen, Pink Floyd and a bunch of '70s and '80s movie musicals, MCR made
``The Wall'' for the era of black eyeliner and body piercing.

The emo-pop heartthrobs had spent the better part of two years riding
the runaway success of their 2004 album
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2004/06/07/arts/critic-s-choice-new-cd-s-raw-riffs-and-sentiment-but-not-lacking-sizzle.html}{Three
Cheers for Sweet Revenge}'': They brooded on magazine covers, flailed on
MTV's ``Total Request Live'' and conquered the Warped Tour. Instead of
cashing in with another set of morbid pop-punk anthems, My Chemical
Romance --- the brothers Gerard (vocals) and Mikey Way (bass), Bob Bryar
(drums), Frank Iero (guitar) and Ray Toro (guitar) --- attempted to make
something more ambitious and timeless.

The group recruited Rob Cavallo, who had experience producing both Green
Day and ``Rent.'' It concocted a complex, deeply personal story line
about an ailing young hero named the Patient and sang ballads with lines
like ``Baby, I'm just soggy from the chemo.'' They wore marching band
uniforms that looked like Tim Burton art-directing ``Sgt. Pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club Band.'' In a much repeated metaphor for the entire
theatrical, daring endeavor, they got Liza Minnelli to sing on it. The
album went triple platinum.

The era of emo-pop dominance ended shortly after. MCR rebooted once
again as a post-apocalyptic glam-prog group for the 2010 LP ``Danger
Days: The True Lives of the Fabulous Killjoys,''
then\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20130325024121/http://www.mychemicalromance.com/blog/mcr/my-chemical-romance}{}\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20130325024121/http://www.mychemicalromance.com/blog/mcr/my-chemical-romance}{broke
up} three years later. (The band will play its first show in seven years
Dec. 20 in Los Angeles.) Its legacy lives on, not only in contemporary
emo bands, but in the young rappers, metalcore bands and genre-hopping
pop musicians who grew up nodding along with the Black Parade's grand
marshals.

Here's an audio guide to the album's songs, plus what came before, and
what came after.

All music previews and full tracks\\
provided by

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
Spotify.

1. The End.
\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/down_arrow.svg}

Apply Eyeliner

Turn autoplay on

\hypertarget{the-end}{%
\subsection{The End.}\label{the-end}}

Track 1

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/oh_catastrophe_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_end_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/in_the_flesh_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/five_years_medium.jpg}

Before `The End.' (1972)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{five-years}{%
\subsection{Five Years}\label{five-years}}

David Bowie

My Chemical Romance was directly inspired by classic, character-driven
rock concept albums like David Bowie's ``The Rise and Fall of Ziggy
Stardust and the Spiders From Mars.'' Like ``The End.,'' Bowie's ``Five
Years'' is a theatrical, grandiose crescendo in 6/8. ``The idea of the
song is that the world is ending in five years, so it was about finding
a drumbeat that got that across,'' the Bowie drummer Woody Woodmansey
\href{https://thequietus.com/articles/21847-woody-woodmansey-david-bowie-interview-spiders-from-mars?page=2}{told
the Quietus} about its laconic intro.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1JIzFhI9Lt5FyslawmHCBi?si=s35N-RhGS8688etSzn79HQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `The End.' (1979)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{in-the-flesh}{%
\subsection{In the Flesh}\label{in-the-flesh}}

Pink Floyd

The opener to ``The Wall,'' the most famous concept album of all time,
was a key influence. ``We wanted it to feel very much like that kind of
beginning, like that you were about to get taken on a journey,'' Gerard
Way said on a commentary track included on the ``Black Parade'' deluxe
edition. ``And it tells a story right away.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/24YmWQgunJGAU8El3ndkyn?si=NPDq3CKKThiHxEF49ofyAQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{the-end-1}{%
\subsection{The End.}\label{the-end-1}}

My Chemical Romance

Beginning with ``Now come one, come all to this tragic affair,'' the
soaring intro to ``The Black Parade'' sets up the album as a
high-concept piece of theater. In live shows, Gerard Way would start the
song dressed in a hospital gown, singing from a gurney.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6s2yqZbiPNPL1B2IeCMsUA?si=ThPYoGEXQECd7SmPwpZSSQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `The End.' (2012)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{oh-catastrophe}{%
\subsection{Oh Catastrophe}\label{oh-catastrophe}}

Crown the Empire

The Dallas metalcore band Crown the Empire begins its 2012 concept album
``The Fallout'' with this scene-setting tune.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7D3HLhK1pp6s5k1kGSw19F?si=OtsyU_PtQOWLSQkcSZXIIA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{dead}{%
\subsection{Dead!}\label{dead}}

Track 2

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/i_havent_been_taking_care_of_myself_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/im_no_good_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/ode_to_sleep_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/dead_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/alive_with_the_glory_of_love_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/i_want_you_to_want_me_live_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mr_blue_sky_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/sgt_peppers_lonely_hearts_club_band_medium.jpg}

Before `Dead!' (1967)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{sgt-peppers-lonely-hearts-club-band}{%
\subsection{Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club
Band}\label{sgt-peppers-lonely-hearts-club-band}}

The Beatles

The bridge of ``Dead!'' reminded MCR of the Beatles' baroque landmark.
So the band broke out the tuba parts.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4fUKE8EULjQdHF4zb0M8FO?si=2oeHywTyQSqhVkJTTGHgcQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Dead!' (1977)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{mr-blue-sky}{%
\subsection{Mr. Blue Sky}\label{mr-blue-sky}}

Electric Light Orchestra

``Dead!'' borrows its springing gait from this Top 40 hit by the
lusciously arranged Electric Light Orchestra. Those clangs reminiscent
of the anvil sounds in the Beatles' ``Maxwell's Silver Hammer''? ELO
used a fire extinguisher.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2RlgNHKcydI9sayD2Df2xp?si=RyhYfm8iQBmVz7Ikj0QnUg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Dead!' (1979)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{i-want-you-to-want-me-live}{%
\subsection{I Want You to Want Me
(Live)}\label{i-want-you-to-want-me-live}}

Cheap Trick

The Cheap Trick bassist Tom Petersson
\href{https://www.loudersound.com/features/the-story-behind-the-song-i-want-you-to-want-me-by-cheap-trick}{told
Classic Rock} magazine that the breakout moment for his power-pop band
started as somewhat of a joke by the group's lead guitarist, Rick
Nielsen: ``The idea was to have it like a heavy-metal pop song. Cheap
Trick doing Abba --- except a very heavy version.'' Beyond that
excellent metaphor for My Chemical Romance, this tune is also bulging
with guitar heroics and a bouncy groove.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6TBJCwgdhwkzjpSjdqJUHC}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Dead!' (2004)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{alive-with-the-glory-of-love}{%
\subsection{Alive With the Glory of
Love}\label{alive-with-the-glory-of-love}}

Say Anything

Though the Los Angeles emo band Say Anything didn't fulfill its initial
intention of making a rock opera, its influential second album, ``
\ldots{} Is a Real Boy,'' nonetheless beat MCR to the punch when it came
to theater-kid histrionics and an omnivorous rock palate.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/53kRlOPQfNWhSraUytOMUY?si=vLMH0zdBRH6otzSKIayw6Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{dead-1}{%
\subsection{Dead!}\label{dead-1}}

My Chemical Romance

``It's about being dead and about people not liking you,'' Gerard Way
said in the unofficial MCR biography ``Not the Life It Seems.'' In the
tune, a doctor delivers a terminal diagnosis with a wild mix of
show-tune bravado and stadium rock. ``We wanted to say, `You may hate us
but we're still here.' We wanted to say, `Here we are and we're more
daring and more defiant than ever,''' Way said.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0uukw2CgEIApv4IWAjXrBC?si=gD3I4aGiRDCueN6d7CA9OA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Dead!' (2011)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{ode-to-sleep}{%
\subsection{Ode to Sleep}\label{ode-to-sleep}}

Twenty One Pilots

This
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/15/arts/music/twenty-one-pilots-trench.html}{genre-crossing
duo} opens its multiplatinum third album, ``Vessel,'' with a multipart
suite that often swings into the bounce-and-bleed of ``Dead!''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/773xZHHSHJvC1z3AAtWgH6?si=MfLb2-XUSVKiCQHJzX4lWw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Dead!' (2013)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{im-no-good}{%
\subsection{I'm No Good}\label{im-no-good}}

New Year's Day

The California metal band New Years Day took the jaunty, gothy,
blood-soaked influence of MCR to heavier depths.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4fbadwRBh2fy0EIoCPZyPA?si=sr6nkwghTAav8O0p7Kg3_w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Dead!' (2017)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{i-havent-been-taking-care-of-myself}{%
\subsection{I Haven't Been Taking Care of
Myself}\label{i-havent-been-taking-care-of-myself}}

Alex Lahey

The brassy-voiced Australian indie-rock songwriter Alex Lahey
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nC_k8j8YwjU}{covered ``Welcome to
the Black Parade}'' for the radio station Triple J's ``Like a Version''
series. After Gerard Way expressed his approval, she thanked him,
saying, ``So many of us wouldn't be here without you.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0dWcW3i3WWVle2LKMEvsMO?si=fraHWcbITQWbM9vDWsXvmw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{this-is-how-i-disappear}{%
\subsection{This Is How I Disappear}\label{this-is-how-i-disappear}}

Track 3

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/turbulent_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/kick_me_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/this_is_how_i_disappear_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/cut_the_wheel_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mandatory_suicide_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/aces_high_live_medium.jpg}

Before `This Is How I Disappear' (1985)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{aces-high-live}{%
\subsection{Aces High (Live)}\label{aces-high-live}}

Iron Maiden

The first live album from Britain's grandiose, highly theatrical,
grandly visual heavy metal bulldozers Iron Maiden was formative for the
Way brothers. ``I listened to that thing for five years straight,''
\href{https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/my-chemical-romances-gerard-way-the-six-pack-qa-118066/}{Gerard
told Rolling Stone}. ``That's one of the things that really made me want
to be a live performer.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1LYpxJhJCMdtAAGrPnrMB0?si=T5ZDCEtHQ52M1q02rTIuqQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `This Is How I Disappear' (1988)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{mandatory-suicide}{%
\subsection{Mandatory Suicide}\label{mandatory-suicide}}

Slayer

Gerard and Mikey Way used to hide their copy of this thrash-metal
classic from their parents because of the skull on the cover.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/54hjFPLAWMurvAqlh0fifV?si=NN1-oTdnR5y5n-QgXifKgQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `This Is How I Disappear' (1993)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{cut-the-wheel}{%
\subsection{Cut the Wheel}\label{cut-the-wheel}}

Rorschach

Before the emergence of influential metalcore bands like Converge and
Hatebreed, Rorschach --- from New Jersey, MCR's own backyard --- was
finding ways to mix the monolithic riffs of metal with the scruffy
attitude of hardcore punk.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1KYhlQabDpGPfRr1ja6eF0?si=O6Xjy-aCT12GVCtTxaGIrA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{this-is-how-i-disappear-1}{%
\subsection{This Is How I Disappear}\label{this-is-how-i-disappear-1}}

My Chemical Romance

The most adrenaline-charged song on ``The Black Parade'' was inspired by
the séances that Harry Houdini's wife conducted after his death in 1926.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0rUNZQuYQvOz6A6zwyT6tM?si=Fjo42CCDRpqgVOY0tcHIAA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `This Is How I Disappear' (2015)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{kick-me}{%
\subsection{Kick Me}\label{kick-me}}

Sleeping With Sirens

Though My Chemical Romance called it quits in 2013, bands like Orlando's
Sleeping With Sirens kept mixing post-hardcore and pop-punk.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5LfFjqx9c83BMXrJVfYT0Y?si=xijXFcSqS0GLFBqsimuRiQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `This Is How I Disappear' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{turbulent}{%
\subsection{Turbulent}\label{turbulent}}

Waterparks

The adventurous Houston band Waterparks mixes MCR's keening melodies and
bold honesty with jittery rainbows of electronic pop. MCR's own Mikey
Way has even served as their touring bassist.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/73GijD6egD0jZ6p7rYnWpj}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{the-sharpest-lives}{%
\subsection{The Sharpest Lives}\label{the-sharpest-lives}}

Track 4

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mr_doctor_man_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_glass_elevator_walls_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_sharpest_lives_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/somebody_told_me_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/astro_zombies_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/glass_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/time_warp_medium.jpg}

Before `The Sharpest Lives' (1975)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{time-warp}{%
\subsection{Time Warp}\label{time-warp}}

``The Rocky Horror Picture Show'' Cast

``The beauty of that movie is self-expression,'' Gerard Way told Spin
about the gender-bending, proto-goth rock musical. ``All of these
characters are rampant and totally free no matter what happens to them.
They're all gonna end up dead, but they don't care.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4WFeJTXNHIS2wURtwlAkhu}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `The Sharpest Lives' (1980)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{glass}{%
\subsection{Glass}\label{glass}}

Joy Division

When Gerard Way played ``The Sharpest Lives'' on an acoustic guitar, he
said it sounded like it was by New Order, the dance-rock band formed by
three-fourths of Joy Division.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4wuZsrGCkXZidmj1y54N3H?si=lDfpP8EORWKyVm_z0pNVaw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `The Sharpest Lives' (1982)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{astro-zombies}{%
\subsection{Astro Zombies}\label{astro-zombies}}

The Misfits

New Jersey's the Misfits, with their love of cheap sci-fi, vintage
horror and pulpy Hollywood lore, became the progenitors of ``horror
punk.'' ``This record changed everything for me,'' Gerard Way
\href{https://www.guitarworld.com/features/record-changed-my-life}{told
Guitar World} about ``Walk Among Us,'' the 1982 Misfits album that
exposed the middle school Dungeons \& Dragons fan to punk. ``My mom
wouldn't buy it for me because it has a song called `Devil's
Whorehouse,' so I got my grandfather to buy it for me.'' When he put it
on, he said he felt ``more liberated'' than he'd ever been.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0KK7xB8skO3Vo8soFjapOk}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `The Sharpest Lives' (2004)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{somebody-told-me}{%
\subsection{Somebody Told Me}\label{somebody-told-me}}

The Killers

This modern classic combined post-punk beats and stadium-rock ambition.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7HGTkn2aX7MNdKs7nV2xBt?si=Wma9ugf3SjeOIxRkYfuiTw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{the-sharpest-lives-1}{%
\subsection{The Sharpest Lives}\label{the-sharpest-lives-1}}

My Chemical Romance

A driving pop-punk burst with lyrics like ``You can watch me corrode
like a beast in repose.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2kMjk14RmYyYhhSbipoa9U?si=YRF3dCa9SSyhEHFBkTnD6A}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `The Sharpest Lives' (2011)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{the-glass-elevator-walls}{%
\subsection{The Glass Elevator (Walls)}\label{the-glass-elevator-walls}}

Crown the Empire

The members of Crown the Empire are fans of concept albums, soaring
melodies and a stage-centric presentation: ``Break down your walls
tonight/We're here to sing for you,'' this song begins. ``Tear down your
walls tonight/We're here to scream for you.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5UZYlzL88CUTsyxNIm44LF?si=-j35R-NNQ5WDXba3jU4WMg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `The Sharpest Lives' (2016)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{mr-doctor-man}{%
\subsection{Mr. Doctor Man}\label{mr-doctor-man}}

Palaye Royale

The gothy, glammy Canadians Palaye Royale are also a group made of
brothers, and they regularly cover MCR in their live shows. (Learning of
the band's reunion, they joked on Twitter, ``We covered `Teenagers' so
much that My Chemical Romance finally said, `let the pros do it.''')

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1yIMrzF45Ven2FzPFAr0Gg?si=QWqRl7AiTQiv-qcPLSyi-Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{welcome-to-the-black-parade}{%
\subsection{Welcome to the Black
Parade}\label{welcome-to-the-black-parade}}

Track 5

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/into_the_unknown_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/without_me_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_show_must_go_on_prt_1_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/carry_on_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/welcome_to_the_black_parade_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/jesus_of_suburbia_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/its_a_hard_knock_life_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/bohemian_rhapsody_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/goodbye_eddie_goodbye_medium.jpg}

Before `Welcome to the Black Parade' (1974)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{goodbye-eddie-goodbye}{%
\subsection{Goodbye Eddie, Goodbye}\label{goodbye-eddie-goodbye}}

The Juicy Fruits

Two titans of '70s film --- the songwriter Paul Williams (``Rainbow
Connection'') and the writer and director Brian De Palma (``Carrie'')
--- collaborated on ``Phantom of the Paradise,'' a horror-themed rock
opera that was critically panned and financially disastrous. Its quiet
cult following includes Gerard Way, who seems to have internalized this
tune from it. ``When I was doing `The Black Parade,'''
Way\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/24/movies/homevideo/phantom-of-the-paradise-rereleased-on-disc.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/24/movies/homevideo/phantom-of-the-paradise-rereleased-on-disc.html}{told
The New York Times}, ``I thought about the film all the time, about its
message of sacrificing integrity in order to reach more people.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4Yn8KdQlotvBuLC5tG1m4K?si=lTOqcI2oR4mlLNuzlasD9g}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Welcome to the Black Parade' (1975)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{bohemian-rhapsody}{%
\subsection{Bohemian Rhapsody}\label{bohemian-rhapsody}}

Queen

You know the story by now: a grand multipart suite, a three-week
recording session, a tape with so many overdubs that you could see
through it, an iconic guitar solo, an outlandish title and a record
label that couldn't understand its
ambition.\href{https://books.google.com/books?id=nN-fDAAAQBAJ\&lpg=PT20\&ots=9L3SE3lA0H\&dq=\%22I\%20think\%20Queen\%20is\%20the\%20greatest\%20rock\%20band\%20of\%20all\%20time\%22\&pg=PT20\#v=onepage\&q=\%22I\%20think\%20Queen\%20is\%20the\%20greatest\%20rock\%20band\%20of\%20all\%20time\%22\&f=false}{}\href{https://books.google.com/books?id=nN-fDAAAQBAJ\&lpg=PT20\&ots=9L3SE3lA0H\&dq=\%22I\%20think\%20Queen\%20is\%20the\%20greatest\%20rock\%20band\%20of\%20all\%20time\%22\&pg=PT20\#v=onepage\&q=\%22I\%20think\%20Queen\%20is\%20the\%20greatest\%20rock\%20band\%20of\%20all\%20time\%22\&f=false}{Said
Gerard Way} in a 2007 interview, ``I think Queen is the greatest rock
band of all time.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7tFiyTwD0nx5a1eklYtX2J?si=4xbhkoJFRoemna3mJajWyA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Welcome to the Black Parade' (1977)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{its-the-hard-knock-life}{%
\subsection{It's the Hard Knock Life}\label{its-the-hard-knock-life}}

The Original Broadway Cast of Annie

My Chemical Romance was inspired by this Broadway smash, and would refer
back to this track when talking about the massive, shouted gang vocals
in the bridge of ``Welcome to the Black Parade.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2IetGxzkjAYQsoFtvX0fNA?si=f91k4GyrQGqBLxwrK6Ivwg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Welcome to the Black Parade' (2004)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{jesus-of-suburbia}{%
\subsection{Jesus of Suburbia}\label{jesus-of-suburbia}}

Green Day

``American Idiot,'' the Grammy-winning punk-rock opera from Green Day,
set the modern standard for latter-day
grand-scale,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/04/21/theater/reviews/21idiot.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/04/21/theater/reviews/21idiot.html}{Broadway-ready},
character-driven concept albums. My Chemical Romance not only opened
some dates on the subsequent tour, but poached the album's producer, Rob
Cavallo.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/58KPPL1AdLHMvR2O2PZejr?si=eZPJJ5bqSKCifTTxykup7w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{welcome-to-the-black-parade-1}{%
\subsection{Welcome to the Black
Parade}\label{welcome-to-the-black-parade-1}}

My Chemical Romance

The first single and the album's grand opus was made of 167 tracks. Toro
said it was ``like our `Bohemian Rhapsody'''
\href{https://www.seymourduncan.com/blog/backstage-pass/ray-toro-of-my-chemical-romance}{in
a 2007 interview}. Brian May returned the salute by performing the song
with the band at Reading Festival in 2011.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5wQnmLuC1W7ATsArWACrgW?si=mt4m-XgxS1Wg0nEntXFhQw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Welcome to the Black Parade' (2012)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{carry-on}{%
\subsection{Carry On}\label{carry-on}}

fun.

The New York City trio fun. rode a combination of Queen, Broadway and
emo-rock to a triple platinum album.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7gpy7sfWPNuOKmUNs3XQYE?si=iiol5pBOQT6YsqO3QJpz6A}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Welcome to the Black Parade' (2013)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{the-show-must-go-on-prt-1}{%
\subsection{The Show Must Go On Prt.
1}\label{the-show-must-go-on-prt-1}}

Famous Last Words

The Michigan metalcore band Famous Last Words isn't named after the MCR
song, but its vocalist, JT Tolles, has said MCR was his first live show.
The band made its debut with a theatrical concept album called
``Two-Faced Charade.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7j4wJdav0vVW1mtiPlAhTj?si=LjmtLwzYTUG_7oAZnq8GNQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Welcome to the Black Parade' (2018)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{without-me}{%
\subsection{Without Me}\label{without-me}}

Halsey

``I've shed a remarkable amount of tears in my life over My Chemical
Romance,'' the chart-topping
star\href{https://twitter.com/halsey/status/1091881212023517184?lang=en}{}\href{https://twitter.com/halsey/status/1091881212023517184?lang=en}{said
on Twitter}. Like MCR, Halsey's pop is personal, gloomy, yet soaring.
``I grew up ritualistically attending warped tour and lurking
livejournal,''\href{https://twitter.com/halsey/status/998473272806096897?lang=en}{}\href{https://twitter.com/halsey/status/998473272806096897?lang=en}{she
wrote}. ``Then I became a musician and met all my emo faves. Proud emo
and will never deny it.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5p7ujcrUXASCNwRaWNHR1C?si=HxAPeCTKSQ-ghRlheX5tcQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Welcome to the Black Parade' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{into-the-unknown}{%
\subsection{Into the Unknown}\label{into-the-unknown}}

Panic! at the Disco

My Chemical Romance made emo-rock sound like movie musicals. Now movie
musicals, like Disney's
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/29/movies/frozen-2-songs.html}{Frozen
2},'' sound like emo-rock.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/421eObjg0DTm2qajJl5OJm?si=wqNPvtJoSQSGsgklqBhMhA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{i-dont-love-you}{%
\subsection{I Don't Love You}\label{i-dont-love-you}}

Track 6

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/hope_for_the_underrated_youth_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/robbery_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/awful_things_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/i_don't_love_you_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/wind_up_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/yellow_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/today_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/please_please_please_let_me_get_what_i_want_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/have_you_ever_seen_the_rain_medium.jpg}

Before `I Don't Love You' (1970)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{have-you-ever-seen-the-rain}{%
\subsection{Have You Ever Seen the
Rain}\label{have-you-ever-seen-the-rain}}

Creedence Clearwater Revival

The Minutemen will tell you that the members of Creedence Clearwater
Revival were good workingman's proto-punks. The band is an acknowledged
influence on MCR's mid-tempo single ``I Don't Love You.'' During MCR's
European tour dates in 2007, the band would occasionally play CCR's
``Fortunate Son'' during the encore.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5DnT9a5IM3eMjKgXTWVJvi?si=RFfxd-WzQH2GWA5bAB-LoA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `I Don't Love You' (1984)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{please-please-please-let-me-get-what-i-want}{%
\subsection{Please, Please, Please Let Me Get What I
Want}\label{please-please-please-let-me-get-what-i-want}}

The Smiths

The 15-year-old Gerard Way and his younger brother were entranced by
``Best \ldots{} I,'' the greatest-hits compilation by mope-rock's
reigning kings of rainy days and sour moods. ``At the time, everything
in America was so macho,'' Gerard Way
told\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/12/26/arts/music/26playlist.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2010/12/26/arts/music/26playlist.html}{The
Times} about growing up in '90s New Jersey. ``The British stuff was the
opposite of macho. I heard the Smiths, and that really changed
everything for me.'' This song, the final track on ``Best \ldots{} I,''
was used as intro music for MCR's European tour dates before they wrote
``The Black Parade.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6BrMEbPSSj55nQhkgf6DnE?si=3tp9dtOLRpKZmxZWBylG8A}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `I Don't Love You' (1993)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{today}{%
\subsection{Today}\label{today}}

Smashing Pumpkins

In high school, both Gerard and Mikey Way were fans of Smashing
Pumpkins, another band that found success mixing tender emotion,
arena-rock bombast and a love of Queen. After seeing the band at Madison
Square Garden, Mikey Way
\href{https://ew.com/article/2006/12/01/transformation-my-chemical-romance/}{told
Entertainment Weekly}. ``Me and {[}Gerard{]} were both like, This is the
band we want to be. We want to save people's lives.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0u5aO1GYsIhAWCPuXdwnak?si=ylF4XDOGTmGQFMZQBTaVIA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `I Don't Love You' (2000)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{yellow}{%
\subsection{Yellow}\label{yellow}}

Coldplay

Born less than two months before Gerard Way in 1977, the Coldplay
frontman Chris Martin grew up on a similar musical diet, and kept
Britpop's moody, mid-tempo guitar-rock ballads commercially viable
throughout the '00s.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/3AJwUDP919kvQ9QcozQPxg?si=TNFeTyxCSSqjHYyrctlbrA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `I Don't Love You' (2001)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{wind-up}{%
\subsection{Wind Up}\label{wind-up}}

Thursday

Thursday was a scene leader in the New Jersey post-hardcore community
that ultimately spawned MCR. Gerard Way credits its singer, Geoff
Rickly, with inspiring him to front a band at all, and Rickly produced
My Chemical Romance's 2002 debut. Thursday's MTV-grazing success on its
2001 breakthrough, ``Full Collapse,'' was an early spark that
foreshadowed the eventual pop windfall of emo bands like MCR, Fall Out
Boy, Panic! at the Disco and Paramore.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0VVqlllv4UZfSJpAAhVnnP?si=dZ0fhDPLSlSKWbn5gJAROA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{i-dont-love-you-1}{%
\subsection{I Don't Love You}\label{i-dont-love-you-1}}

My Chemical Romance

This power ballad was written during the long stretch of touring for
MCR's 2004 breakthrough ``Three Cheers for Sweet Revenge.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4RAOI1etsgbh5NP3T5R8rN?si=b-0FLjOUSQWNeNf67XPZ_Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `I Don't Love You' (2017)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{awful-things}{%
\subsection{Awful Things}\label{awful-things}}

Lil Peep featuring Lil Tracy

Lil Peep amassed a huge internet following and a handful of charting
singles for a pioneering mixture of trap beats with the heart-rending
emo melodicism of bands like My Chemical Romance and Fall Out Boy. (Peep
even dressed as Gerard Way for Halloween one year as a child.)
After\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/16/obituaries/lil-peep-dead.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/16/obituaries/lil-peep-dead.html}{Peep
died in 2017} at the age of 21, MCR's ``Helena'' played at his memorial
service.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7Hr2XoaGpIMKbNXCZDZ3le?si=I5-OzF8CTx-ckpaPHi44TQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `I Don't Love You' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{robbery}{%
\subsection{Robbery}\label{robbery}}

Juice WRLD

The depressive melodies of the 21-year-old singing-rap star Juice WRLD,
who\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/08/arts/music/juice-wrld-dead.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/08/arts/music/juice-wrld-dead.html}{died
earlier this month}, mirror the mid-00s era of emo, and his message
resonates like a modern update as well: Even when he finds ``true
happiness,''
he\href{https://www.vulture.com/2019/03/juice-wrld-profile.html}{}\href{https://www.vulture.com/2019/03/juice-wrld-profile.html}{told
Vulture}, ``I'm gonna still lead people through whatever they're going
through.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6Hj9jySrnFppAI0sEMCZpJ?si=uX8mOdUITwCykkgTZWqQZw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `I Don't Love You' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{hope-for-the-underrated-youth}{%
\subsection{Hope for the Underrated
Youth}\label{hope-for-the-underrated-youth}}

Yungblud

``Gerard Way knew every single thing I was going through,'' the
pan-genre musician and eye-shadow fan Yungblud
\href{https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevebaltin/2019/10/29/yungblud-on-the-constant-fire-and-optimism-in-todays-youth/}{told
Forbes}. ``Ain't a singer, he's an activist.'' Indeed, Yungblud is part
of a generation of artists mixing the emo era's blood-spattered diary
entries with the sound of modern lo-fi rap.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/24qhW8fqWyrMHqkBfM2HPk?si=yBsqQYguTMyt78h6nptwEQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{house-of-wolves}{%
\subsection{House of Wolves}\label{house-of-wolves}}

Track 7

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_jester_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/house_of_wolves_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/shakespeares_sister_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/american_nightmare_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/detroit_rock_city_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/three_little_bops_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/sing_sing_sing_medium.jpg}

Before `House of Wolves' (1938)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{sing-sing-sing}{%
\subsection{Sing, Sing, Sing}\label{sing-sing-sing}}

Benny Goodman and His Orchestra

The powerhouse drumming of Gene Krupa makes this one of swing music's
most memorable moments.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5L8ta4ECl5zeA6bGqY7G38?si=1B8cC2sgTYuIKJyMRnYxCQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `House of Wolves' (1957)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{three-little-bops}{%
\subsection{Three Little Bops}\label{three-little-bops}}

Shorty Rogers

For this song about sin, Toro envisioned Friz Freleng's Looney Tunes
spoof ``The Three Little Bops.'' In the classic cartoon, the Three
Little Pigs are rebooted as a jazz trio, and the Big Bad Wolf is a
thwarted and vengeful trumpet player. After a failed use of explosives,
the Wolf ends up in hell, blowing his horn from a cauldron.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2Ki21NWooDIlAIO7V8WqxZ?si=xMijs7MfQlSazYGi-lrepg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `House of Wolves' (1976)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{detroit-rock-city}{%
\subsection{Detroit Rock City}\label{detroit-rock-city}}

Kiss

Another theatrical, high-volume riff machine fond of makeup.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2jz6rWGqVCYsymwxGoaON4?si=QcwVTpvOT-mv2PNe70OW7Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `House of Wolves' (1985)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{american-nightmare}{%
\subsection{American Nightmare}\label{american-nightmare}}

The Misfits

The venerable horror-punks let their rockabilly flags fly on this track.
It was recorded in 1981 but released after the band's 1983 breakup.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5ijiPl0tstOHQl3CZPYq27?si=tFr9G6NES_2cC8SWLZNy5w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `House of Wolves' (1985)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{shakespeares-sister}{%
\subsection{Shakespeare's Sister}\label{shakespeares-sister}}

The Smiths

Even the perpetually miserable Smiths couldn't resist breaking into the
occasional rockabilly-fueled rave-up, albeit one believed to reference
Virginia Woolf.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4mYpkmfY0ycWAU3GTKGmRa?si=ViUWR8etSB2N4C2CQpj47g}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{house-of-wolves-1}{%
\subsection{House of Wolves}\label{house-of-wolves-1}}

My Chemical Romance

The guitarist Frank Iero played a melody that he thought his father
would like, and the band was soon wielding its switchblades for a piece
of rockabilly-metal.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7j2Bmzpnf6RwEWEQ2sv8Ho?si=41y9hCIFSTix35FKmQBNPg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `House of Wolves' (2007)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{the-jester}{%
\subsection{The Jester}\label{the-jester}}

Sum 41

Canada's Sum 41 broke out in the sillier, brattier 2001, though it was
already leaning in a more ``mature'' direction by its 2004 album,
``Chuck.'' The band's fourth album, a 2007 concept record called
``Underclass Hero,'' emerged in the wake of Green Day's ``American
Idiot'' and MCR's ``The Black Parade.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0KWJ0BsX0kvEFED13gRyFL?si=cJN4XqL5QEyYBc-1x83RPQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{cancer}{%
\subsection{Cancer}\label{cancer}}

Track 8

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/goner_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/cancer_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/so_tired_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/let_it_be_medium.jpg}

Before `Cancer' (1970)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{let-it-be}{%
\subsection{Let It Be}\label{let-it-be}}

The Beatles

Though the Black Parade (the fictional band) dressed like Sgt. Pepper's
Lonely Hearts Club Band (the fictional band), ``Cancer'' feels more like
this McCartney gem from the Beatles' final LP.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7iN1s7xHE4ifF5povM6A48?si=wKV29DpBQtG_wnIBBFarFw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Cancer' (1983)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{so-tired}{%
\subsection{So Tired}\label{so-tired}}

Ozzy Osbourne

The formative MCR influence Ozzy Osbourne was no stranger to symphonic,
string-soaked piano ballads. To get its Beatles-esque sound, the string
arrangement here was done by Louis Clark, who worked extensively with
Electric Light Orchestra.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/3kZUWSoGjfRa3AZ1Kqzjen?si=OoY43xnnTUWftDvTWNZaVQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{cancer-1}{%
\subsection{Cancer}\label{cancer-1}}

My Chemical Romance

The emotional climax of ``The Black Parade'' is a piano ballad about the
titular disease. The producer Cavallo plays piano on the track and said
it was written in eight minutes. ``It's not a poetic track. It's very
direct, very brutal, but that's the way disease is,'' Way said in a 2006
statement. ``For me it was almost like an attempt to write the darkest
song ever, and I think we achieved that.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0GgN4MhR5GKn5IcKN0e0rG?si=t8i0XJh2S5qCA1JMeUwa9w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Cancer' (2015)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{goner}{%
\subsection{Goner}\label{goner}}

Twenty One Pilots

Twenty One Pilots covered ``Cancer'' in 2016, but you can already hear
some similarities in this crescendoing piano ballad that closes their
four-times platinum album ``Blurryface.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5P3yUXUC9rZPJPNmYGKEAz?si=qq0w2xG5S1mDhzWAnazZfw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{mama}{%
\subsection{Mama}\label{mama}}

Track 9

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/all_the_good_girls_go_to_hell_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/carousel_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mama_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/glamour_ghouls_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/cabaret_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/alabama_song_whiskey_bar_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/alabama_song_medium.jpg}

Before `Mama' (1930)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{alabama-song}{%
\subsection{Alabama Song}\label{alabama-song}}

Lotte Lenya

Any journey into cabaret-punk begins with the work of Bertold Brecht and
Kurt Weill in Weimar-era Germany. Their proletarian theater blended
American jazz and the pop music smoking out from German nightclubs,
adding a socialist bent.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5JSu1S59CChu5KNVKmrVS8?si=m4O3QSOgR9mB-dXylqRP0w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Mama' (1967)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{alabama-song-whiskey-bar}{%
\subsection{Alabama Song (Whiskey Bar)}\label{alabama-song-whiskey-bar}}

The Doors

The Doors, perhaps the most indelibly theatrical rock band to soundtrack
the Summer of Love, covered Weill's ``Alabama Song,'' influencing MCR's
dabble into the Brechtian ether.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0JNZGIavoUrdup1NsgJOQs?si=Jm5IIYmMTguMAwXoyzIlDw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Mama' (1972)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{cabaret}{%
\subsection{Cabaret}\label{cabaret}}

Liza Minnelli

Liza Minnelli's Academy Award-winning performance as Sally Bowles
remains her most iconic role, onstage or onscreen. Directed by Bob
Fosse, ``Cabaret'' refracted the Hollywood musical through a darker and
more cynical lens, without sacrificing any of its beauty or bombast.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7AFy1aN1RQVgGOXzCtrK87?si=BUcfzhG5TZKSKIJph7L0Pw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Mama' (1996)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{glamour-ghouls}{%
\subsection{Glamour Ghouls}\label{glamour-ghouls}}

The World/Inferno Friendship Society

Thanks to Amanda Palmer's Dresden Dolls, ``cabaret punk'' and ``dark
cabaret'' bands had a new smoky spotlight in the years leading up to
``The Black Parade,'' including Denver's DeVotchKa, the British pioneers
the Tiger Lillies and the long-running Brooklyn band the World/Inferno
Friendship Society.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1CZqXNSNj1CxDOoZv2azpk?si=vUOsEoKETOiPijQFwSX8WA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{mama-1}{%
\subsection{Mama}\label{mama-1}}

My Chemical Romance

This campy, melodramatic piece of goth cabaret features Broadway's own
kinetic queen. ``I love those guys,'' Minnelli told The Times in 2006.
``They are so much fun, but truly professional. And Gerard's musical
knowledge knocked my socks off.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0Zh3tKIphLOvQux4dA6PFZ?si=FyNG2SLhQXajngfFY1Rhzg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Mama' (2015)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{carousel}{%
\subsection{Carousel}\label{carousel}}

Melanie Martinez

The quirky Beatles fan Melanie Martinez has made two Top 10 albums that
crawl on the edges of goth, pop and cabaret.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5nHTLEJ10zaqdnKqLriah4?si=x_E8tvW0RdC7BaOUuaf7Bg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Mama' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{all-the-good-girls-go-to-hell}{%
\subsection{All the Good Girls Go to
Hell}\label{all-the-good-girls-go-to-hell}}

Billie Eilish

The\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/28/arts/music/billie-eilish-debut-album.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/28/arts/music/billie-eilish-debut-album.html}{goth-flecked
teenage alt-pop star} of the moment grew up on Green Day, Paramore and,
of course, My Chemical Romance.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6IRdLKIyS4p7XNiP8r6rsx?si=XrCiLe7WQwqx05ok4fNkyA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{sleep}{%
\subsection{Sleep}\label{sleep}}

Track 10

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/wherever_you_are_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/sleep_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/clove_smoke_catharsis_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/million_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/final_dream_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/beat_my_head_against_the_wall_medium.jpg}

Before `Sleep' (1984)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{beat-my-head-against-the-wall}{%
\subsection{Beat My Head Against the
Wall}\label{beat-my-head-against-the-wall}}

Black Flag

Though the members of MCR generally gush over the frenetic, hyperactive
hardcore that Black Flag released between 1979 and 1981, the band's 1984
LP is more analogous to what happens in ``The Black Parade.'' Black Flag
played punk rock at the sludgier gait of heavy metal, complete with
ripping guitar solos and savagely bleak lyrics.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0dNS1arDASqkkgGlrkCezo?si=X81iX7C9SSGo-tIEQ0VZKw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Sleep' (1984)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{final-dream}{%
\subsection{Final Dream}\label{final-dream}}

Toto

Gerard Way loves Toto's lush, dreamy soundtrack for David Lynch's 1984
vision of ``Dune'' for its mix of rock sound and orchestral fury. He
told Rolling Stone this was ``the most powerful piece of music I've ever
heard,'' and ``Sleep'' pays somewhat of a tribute.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7HQiwzEofWBjL2V1WLbi1H?si=uMw7huS8TEGvbbeI6qaCvA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Sleep' (1995)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{million}{%
\subsection{Million}\label{million}}

Jawbreaker

This post-hardcore landmark was an influence on MCR and other
chart-storming emo bands of the following decade. ``Million'' comes from
the New York band's only major label record. It was incredibly divisive
among fans since it was given a slick, polished sheen by none other than
future ``Black Parade'' producer Cavallo.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2w8vfaGE551NZ7WoWMN6Ap?si=IrgqZJ4RR0O_Xe8hNQ9nug}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Sleep' (1999)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{clove-smoke-catharsis}{%
\subsection{Clove Smoke Catharsis}\label{clove-smoke-catharsis}}

AFI

AFI debuted in 1993 as snotty skate punks and broke through in 2003 as
brooding emo stars. In between, albums like ``Black Sails in the
Sunset'' were crucial in drawing the aesthetic links between hardcore,
post-hardcore, goth and Misfits-style horror-punk.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5GtaLmLIpQNshjXxlms6Ke?si=o_aD9IwgTMinH-1vHrja_Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{sleep-1}{%
\subsection{Sleep}\label{sleep-1}}

My Chemical Romance

To write ``The Black Parade,'' the band holed up at Paramour Estate, the
former home of the silent film star Antonio Moreno and his wife, the oil
heiress Daisy Canfield Danziger. Rumor has it her ghost still frequents
its halls and, indeed, the band said they experienced some strange
stuff: slamming doors, faucets turning on by themselves, a sighting of a
lady in white dress and a mysteriously moist bathtub. Anxiety drove
Gerard Way to sleep terrors and nightmares --- an experience he detailed
in the recording that opens ``Sleep.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2pONuBYwWrNm9jcJH6hmPc?si=Trh1eyUgTK-2Y715PS2WJw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Sleep' (2010)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{wherever-you-are}{%
\subsection{Wherever You Are}\label{wherever-you-are}}

One OK Rock

This Japanese arena-punk band has millions of streams and has toured
with Ed Sheeran, 5 Seconds of Summer and many more.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0YAMQSmHk6BSUGTYpaoqTJ?si=JTZMtIiqTiWoIzFdAMq3QA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{teenagers}{%
\subsection{Teenagers}\label{teenagers}}

Track 11

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/last_of_the_american_girls_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/teenagers_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/the_headmasters_ritual_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/mama_weer_all_crazee_now_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/bang_a_gong_get_it_on_medium.jpg}

Before `Teenagers' (1971)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{bang-a-gong-get-it-on}{%
\subsection{Bang a Gong (Get It On)}\label{bang-a-gong-get-it-on}}

T. Rex

Gerard Way loved the T. Rex leader Marc Bolan's glittery, shimmery,
feather-boa'd twist on traditional masculinity. MCR's glam makeover on
``Teenagers'' owes a debt there.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6FsQrRpBLgsrFeAeiQqytm?si=GVCfQr6jQBGAT41iHuPVmw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Teenagers' (1972)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{mama-weer-all-crazee-now}{%
\subsection{Mama Weer All Crazee Now}\label{mama-weer-all-crazee-now}}

Slade

The British miscreants Slade ratcheted up the hard rock crunch on the
era's glam shuffle, ultimately influencing everyone from Mötley Crüe to
Smashing Pumpkins.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2Gp23sr178DBntGtqKnJez?si=COtRxRloTKi-LZKziUWn-Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Teenagers' (1985)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{the-headmasters-ritual}{%
\subsection{The Headmasters Ritual}\label{the-headmasters-ritual}}

The Smiths

This song, which confronts corporal punishment, was inspired by
Morrissey's own experiences suffering abuse as a student in Manchester.
It was a direct lyrical influence on ``Teenagers,'' a song that tackled
violence in America's schools.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/4tFGNFIIZ9ANSewxGZyiDD?si=zHVgfOR5SPmdedo3epY9cw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{teenagers-1}{%
\subsection{Teenagers}\label{teenagers-1}}

My Chemical Romance

``That song almost didn't fit on the record but it's a topic that's so
important to our culture. It's about a really big problem in America
where kids are killing kids,'' Gerard Way
\href{https://www.nme.com/news/music/my-chemical-romance-127-1347470}{told
NME}. ``The only thing I learned in high school is that people are very
violent and territorial.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7j31rVgGX9Q2blT92VBEA0?si=6wiSUMn8SHu1WWOkzHov3w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Teenagers' (2009)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{last-of-the-american-girls}{%
\subsection{Last of the American
Girls}\label{last-of-the-american-girls}}

Green Day

For this song off its second rock opera, ``21st Century Breakdown,''
Green Day followed its old tour mates MCR down a similar melodic path.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5Rjm3VIMlxAEIEy5gU2bF7?si=SUtTqc8NQ2e_biEs1qn1ZA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{disenchanted}{%
\subsection{Disenchanted}\label{disenchanted}}

Track 12

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/circles_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/xo_tour_llif3_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/disenchanted_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/supersonic_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/chemical_world_medium.jpg}

Before `Disenchanted' (1993)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{chemical-world}{%
\subsection{Chemical World}\label{chemical-world}}

Blur

Gerard and Mikey Way were fans of Britpop bands like Blur, which offered
a more stylish and less macho Anglophile alternative to the churn of
American grunge.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1JVsEciUZKtji9oAC9LMz1?si=NBWu6Pd1QoupdZUZ1vT1xQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Disenchanted' (1994)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{supersonic}{%
\subsection{Supersonic}\label{supersonic}}

Oasis

Young Gerard was hesitant to get into these impolite songsmiths, but his
brother had no qualms.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1qr2GUENukq90wmJtbg3qr?si=bNmRg87uQh-k08vU-lkV1Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{disenchanted-1}{%
\subsection{Disenchanted}\label{disenchanted-1}}

My Chemical Romance

MCR was playing an early version of this ballad as part of the Three
Cheers for Sweet Revenge Tour in 2005.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/6T7MAQCekVb3UnCykjX3BP?si=BvDM6CE0SX2brow5ArRw5Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Disenchanted' (2017)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{xo-tour-llif3}{%
\subsection{XO Tour Llif3}\label{xo-tour-llif3}}

Lil Uzi Vert

This\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/08/13/arts/lil-uzi-vert-xo-tour-llif3-push-me-to-the-edge.html}{}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/08/13/arts/lil-uzi-vert-xo-tour-llif3-push-me-to-the-edge.html}{Top
10 single} with more than 1.5 billion streams across YouTube, SoundCloud
and Spotify was a locus point for the contemporary wave where
slow-rolling rap beats meets emo-styled bloodletting.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/7GX5flRQZVHRAGd6B4TmDO?si=MZq8akY0RE2aALh9QuWMsA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Disenchanted' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{circles}{%
\subsection{Circles}\label{circles}}

Post Malone

Avowed emo fan Post Malone has had three No. 1 hits with his narcotic
sing-speak mix of trap, country, alt-rock and hazy cloud rap. When he
guest-DJ'd the Los Angeles party Emo Nite, Malone sang along and played
air guitar to ``Welcome to the Black Parade.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/21jGcNKet2qwijlDFuPiPb?si=9ulrlsODQ62yz_NbWR3XMQ}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Advertisement

\hypertarget{famous-last-words}{%
\subsection{Famous Last Words}\label{famous-last-words}}

Track 13

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/hand_crushed_by_a_mallet_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/famous_last_words_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/direction_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/somewhere_in_the_swamps_of_jersey_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/flying_high_again_medium.jpg}

Before `Famous Last Words' (1981)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{flying-high-again}{%
\subsection{Flying High Again}\label{flying-high-again}}

Ozzy Osbourne

For inspiration on ``Famous Last Words,'' Toro listened to his favorite
guitar solos by the influential Ozzy Osbourne guitarist Randy Rhoads,
whose furious, classical-influenced shredding gave a majestic quality to
albums like ``Diary of a Madman'' before his death the following year.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/3VPcxdwwo9TcjAOYZa5ZrP?si=gMYGMCH9TgqIzipwEDw71g}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Famous Last Words' (1996)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{somewhere-in-the-swamps-of-jersey}{%
\subsection{Somewhere in the Swamps of
Jersey}\label{somewhere-in-the-swamps-of-jersey}}

Lifetime

Formed in 1990, the seeds of New Jersey's punk community were planted
with Lifetime. ``If it weren't for Lifetime, New Jersey punk rock would
have ended with the Misfits,'' Iero
\href{https://web.archive.org/web/20070323030639/http://www.spin.com/features/exclusives/2006/03/060324_lifetime/}{told
Spin}. ``Every day I hear a new band trying to sound like Lifetime,
whether they know it or not.''

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/5755HZdBGvzWebjkuGjMZW?si=3-IrU4H0SAmxrciXoj-s8Q}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Famous Last Words' (2000)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{direction}{%
\subsection{Direction}\label{direction}}

Midtown

Before their eventual friends and tour mates formed My Chemical Romance,
fellow Jersey acts like Midtown, Thursday and Saves the Day were deftly
mixing the hooks and energy of '90s pop-punk with the spilled emotions
and crunch of contemporary hardcore in all-ages shows in basements and
V.F.W. halls.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/07S5TQgCK4wtNWulY3KiZD?si=KVlQ03jeRWCRjG249SSVDg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{famous-last-words-1}{%
\subsection{Famous Last Words}\label{famous-last-words-1}}

My Chemical Romance

During the ``Black Parade'' writing sessions, Gerard Way was having
anxiety nightmares, Mikey Way's bipolar disorder led him to abandon the
project briefly and the band struggled with uncertainty. This song,
whose working title was ``The Saddest Music in the World,'' was both a
reflection and a creative breakthrough. ``That song's so undeniably
powerful because it was born out of that period,'' Gerard told Spin.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/2d6m2F4I7wCuAKtSsdhh83?si=qZz-of2jSPKrLaWvO7Dqtg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

After `Famous Last Words' (2019)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{hand-crushed-by-a-mallet}{%
\subsection{Hand Crushed by a Mallet}\label{hand-crushed-by-a-mallet}}

100 gecs

The music of 100 gecs is a postmodern bouillabaisse of weirdo pop,
mutant techno, harsh noise, dubstep, MySpace-era ``crunkcore,'' John
Zorn's cut-and-paste compositions and ``nightcore,'' the internet-born
practice of speeding up songs. However, the duo's Laura Les once remixed
an MCR song and the melodic basis of much of their music has the
distinct taste of emo-pop.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/0XWTLNFUHKMfUuTlWqHkeO?si=uSaOEt4wSj2CrKJU8bkZMA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\hypertarget{listen-to-the-playlist}{%
\subsection{Listen to the playlist}\label{listen-to-the-playlist}}

\hypertarget{blood}{%
\subsection{Blood}\label{blood}}

Hidden Track

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/blood_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/lazing_on_a_sunday_afternoon_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/jolity_farm_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/when_im_sixty_four_medium.jpg}\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/im_henry_the_viii_medium.jpg}

Before `Blood' (1911)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{im-henry-the-eighth}{%
\subsection{I'm Henry the Eighth}\label{im-henry-the-eighth}}

Harry Champion

This piece of classic British music hall from the variety shows popular
in the early 20th century was originally released on a shellac 10-inch.
Harry Champion's ``I'm Henry the Eighth'' has had an excellent second
life in rock music: Herman's Hermits had a hit cover during the British
Invasion. But, like MCR, it also has a morbid streak: In the final
verse, the undertaker who took away the seventh Henry is having a slow
day and begins sizing up number eight.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/15KdJuTdFZC4mdM6ZXoWs4?si=k5Wotd-sR06S3p5Lg9wa2g}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Blood' (1967)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{when-im-sixty-four}{%
\subsection{When I'm Sixty-Four}\label{when-im-sixty-four}}

The Beatles

Paul McCartney's father, Jim McCartney, was a working musician who loved
the tunes of the music hall era. This song is widely considered to be a
tribute to his dad's taste.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1NrbnHlR2BFREcyWXHIHip?si=nILS-B-cQQigVkaypS7LIA}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Blood' (1967)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{jolity-farm}{%
\subsection{Jolity Farm}\label{jolity-farm}}

The Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band

Though many '60s and '70s bands would occasionally flirt with the sounds
of 1910s music hall, the satirical British cult weirdos Bonzo Dog
Doo-Dah Band made it part of their overarching aesthetic.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/3HYSa1Wac6pokAeGoWFTDE?si=HUHsKcBnTL6ihbZ0VNe3rw}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

Before `Blood' (1975)

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse.svg}

\hypertarget{lazing-on-a-sunday-afternoon}{%
\subsection{Lazing on a Sunday
Afternoon}\label{lazing-on-a-sunday-afternoon}}

Queen

Queen dropped this kooky vaudeville number as Track 2 on ``A Night at
the Opera.'' To get the old-timey megaphone sound, they sent Freddie
Mercury's vocals through a pair of headphones and into a metal can.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/12TZzfqJyY3UvtZ3lq1WmY?si=CohMmBuES76CayjHJT0s-w}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_white.svg}
FULL TRACK

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/play_inverse_red.svg}

\hypertarget{blood-1}{%
\subsection{Blood}\label{blood-1}}

My Chemical Romance

The curtains close with a hidden track, an jaunty, ironic, metatextual
number in the British music hall tradition. It pokes gentle fun of the
years when MCR was photographed in fake blood.

\href{https://open.spotify.com/track/1rNSLiEFpAF4amVhkzfTUG?si=8eHuN9-zQiGE81GQ1VtBWg}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/spotify_logo_red.svg}
FULL TRACK

Illustration by James Jean. Additional work by Shannon Lin.

Related Articles

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/07/15/arts/music/b52s-influences-playlist.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/b52s.jpg}

\hypertarget{before--after-the-b-52s}{%
\subsubsection{Before \& After `The
B-52's'}\label{before--after-the-b-52s}}

By Christopher R. Weingarten

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/06/23/arts/music/radiohead-ok-computer-influences-playlist.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/radiohead.jpg}

\hypertarget{before--after-ok-computer}{%
\subsubsection{Before \& After OK
Computer}\label{before--after-ok-computer}}

By Charles Aaron

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/03/26/arts/music/before-and-after-chuck-berry-rock-n-roll.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/12/02/mcr/assets/images/chuck_berry.jpg}

\hypertarget{before--after-chuck-berry}{%
\subsubsection{Before \& After Chuck
Berry}\label{before--after-chuck-berry}}

By Guilbert Gates

Advertisement

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
