Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Meet the Special Counsel
Team: So Careful They Won't Even Disclose Their Shake Shack Orders

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OHp902}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{meet-the-special-counsel-team-so-careful-they-wont-even-disclose-their-shake-shack-orders}{%
\section{Meet the Special Counsel Team: So Careful They Won't Even
Disclose Their Shake Shack
Orders}\label{meet-the-special-counsel-team-so-careful-they-wont-even-disclose-their-shake-shack-orders}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/08/18/us/politics/17dc-specialcounsel-print/17dc-specialcounsel-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{Noah
Weiland}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 16, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ALEXANDRIA, Va. --- Greg D. Andres looked like any ordinary guest at the
Westin hotel here, standing near the valet in flip-flops and a white
Notre Dame boxing T-shirt, waiting for a Postmates delivery from Shake
Shack.

The moment would be unremarkable save for Mr. Andres's role as the lead
prosecutor for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, in the trial
of Paul Manafort,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/16/us/politics/paul-manafort-trial-jury-verdict.html}{concluding
its third week here}. Even the briefest glimpses of Mr. Mueller's
investigators, who have spoken publicly only in court papers and short
court appearances since the inquiry began, draw notice.

Mr. Manafort's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/08/insider/the-manafort-trial-case.html}{tax
and bank fraud trial} has provided the first real look at the special
counsel's team, the elusive players in the central drama of Washington
political life and the subjects of fascination for the capital's
chattering classes. Tagged by President Trump as
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/04/us/politics/fact-check-trump-mueller-democrats.html}{17
angry Democrats},'' they have shown themselves to be typical, if
harried, government lawyers, staying at the hotel opposite the
courthouse to devote most of their waking hours to trying the case.

Other members of the special counsel's office have joined Mr. Andres in
the courtroom, including Andrew Weissmann, one of Mr. Mueller's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/31/us/politics/andrew-weissmann-mueller.html}{top
deputies}, who oversaw the prosecution from a seat in the back. Like a
basketball coach during timeouts, he huddled with the others during
recesses for strategy sessions, clutching a green government-issue
notebook that the rest of the team used during the trial, making them
easy to identify.

The prosecutors snacked on Life Savers and orange-colored Starburst
candy from jars that sat near Judge T. S. Ellis III. They drank from
worn foam cups marked with their initials. Next to them sat a black
catering-style cart labeled ``Property of SCO'' --- Special Counsel's
Office --- piled with binders of documents.

Mr. Mueller's spokesman, Peter Carr, whose
\href{https://www.sltrib.com/news/politics/2018/04/14/mr-no-comment-meet-the-utahn-who-speaks-for-the-special-counsels-russia-trump-probe-but-dont-expect-him-to-say-too-much/}{``no
comment'' replies} have become a running dark joke among the Washington
press corps, sat among the spectators and reporters. He would not even
confirm Mr. Andres's order from Shake Shack, deferring to reportorial
observation.

Nor would Mr. Andres himself. Asked later whether he had in fact ordered
Shake Shack, he laughed, then paused.

``I can't say,'' he said, his usual response when journalists at the
hotel asked him about his work as he strolled the lobby juggling
half-eaten bags of Lay's potato chips, Starbucks beverages and Diet
Coke, his hair tousled and tie loosened. He did wonder aloud on
Wednesday outside the gift shop, which is filled with postcards and key
chains celebrating Mr. Trump's inauguration, whether he had included
every important detail during his final rebuttal after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/15/us/politics/manafort-trial-closing-arguments.html}{closing
arguments}.

As the prosecutors have shuttled between the courtroom and the hotel,
they have found themselves in tight spaces with Mr. Manafort's lawyers
and reporters, testing their professional and social boundaries. The two
sides went out of their way to be civil, bantering and making small talk
about sports and work, a person close to Mr. Manafort's defense team
said.

Encounters with reporters have proved more delicate. In one instance,
Uzo Asonye, one of the special counsel prosecutors, stepped into an
elevator with a colleague whom he stopped midsentence.

``Stop,'' he said, gesturing to the reporter's press badge. He held up
his hand to silence her.

He turned to the reporter with a smile. ``Sorry. I can't talk to you.''

The prosecutors' habits are to be expected in such a big case, former
members of independent counsel teams said. The difference this time is
the magnitude of the investigation paired with an era of instant news.

``This is unusual,'' said Solomon L. Wisenberg, a deputy independent
counsel who was selected by Judge Kenneth W. Starr to handle the grand
jury questioning of President Bill Clinton. ``This is a major, major
trial with intense press interest in an era when you have 24-hour cable
news.''

During
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2007/03/07/washington/07libby.html}{the
2007 trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr.}, Vice President Dick Cheney's former
chief of staff who was convicted of perjury in connection with the leak
of a C.I.A. officer's identity, the prosecution team took unusual
measures to deter attention, said Peter R. Zeidenberg, a deputy special
counsel in the case. Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the lead prosecutor, at one
point negotiated with a photographer to allow for a picture of him
picking up coffee. The deal, Mr. Zeidenberg said, was that the
photographer would then leave Mr. Fitzgerald alone.

Perhaps no member of Mr. Mueller's team has drawn more curiosity than
the special counsel himself, who has not spoken publicly about the
inquiry. The void has filled with speculation about the smallest
observations --- even about
\href{https://www.newyorker.com/culture/on-and-off-the-avenue/robert-mueller-style-icon}{his
choice of watch}, the hyper-accurate Casio DW-290, which he wears with
the face on the inside of his wrist.

Public sightings of him are scarce. A New York Times reporter spotted
Mr. Mueller leaving a 7-Eleven convenience store in Washington on a
Saturday morning this winter in a cinched-waist parka and gym clothes,
walking to a small sport utility vehicle. Mr. Mueller got behind the
wheel, made a U-turn to cross a double yellow line and drove away.

Most of the sightings draw buzz. A photo of Mr. Mueller
\href{https://twitter.com/aaronjschaffer/status/971812608717225984?s=21}{waiting
to cross a street} in downtown Washington made the rounds on social
media. Last month, Politico
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2018/07/27/robert-mueller-trump-jr-picture-dca-airport-745144}{published
a photograph} of Mr. Mueller feet away from Donald Trump Jr. at a gate
at Reagan National Airport. The image quickly boomeranged around Twitter
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/27/us/politics/donald-trump-jr-mueller-airport.html}{was
picked up by many news outlets}.

Thomas Burr, the Washington bureau chief for The Salt Lake Tribune, was
eating dinner with his girlfriend at a Washington restaurant in June
when Mr. Mueller and his wife walked by their table and said hello.

``They got a booth,'' Mr. Burr said, ``and we left them alone.'' Mr.
Burr
\href{https://twitter.com/thomaswburr/status/1012855246937317378}{tweeted
about the encounter} but declined to specify the restaurant, for fear of
giving it unwanted attention.

The scene across the Potomac River in Alexandria did provide a reminder
that not everyone is riveted by the Russia investigation.

On Wednesday evening, New York Jets players, staying at the Westin
before a preseason game against the Washington Redskins, sat at the bar
near the defense lawyers. As they signed autographs, some asked
reporters who Mr. Manafort was and why so many cameras were set up on
the front curb.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
