Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Israel's Benjamin
Netanyahu, Still a Step Ahead of Scandals, Faces a New Inquiry

\url{https://nyti.ms/2aFoLii}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Memo From Israel

\hypertarget{israels-benjamin-netanyahu-still-a-step-ahead-of-scandals-faces-a-new-inquiry}{%
\section{Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu, Still a Step Ahead of Scandals,
Faces a New
Inquiry}\label{israels-benjamin-netanyahu-still-a-step-ahead-of-scandals-faces-a-new-inquiry}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2016/07/31/world/ISRAEL/ISRAEL-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/james-glanz}{James Glanz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- He and his family have been accused of improprieties as
strange as trying to palm off their used lawn furniture to the prime
minister's residence, and as serious as pocketing illegal contributions
from foreign donors.

And in recent weeks, leaks of allegations and investigations large and
small have gradually dripped out in
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/topic/destination/israel?inline=nyt-geo}{Israel's}
competitive media caldron, with the attorney general announcing a new
and potentially damaging inquiry last month.

Prime Minister
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/benjamin-netanyahu?8qa}{Benjamin
Netanyahu} has been cleared of some of the claims that have dogged him
for decades, but other investigations have yet to reach a conclusion. On
Thursday, the news site
\href{http://www.ynetnews.com/home/0,7340,L-3083,00.html}{Ynet} reported
that the attorney general, who until February was Mr. Netanyahu's
cabinet secretary, said he would not ease up on his former boss.

None of this has escaped the attention of enemies or allies, but amid
all the noise, Mr. Netanyahu has repeatedly proved to be a politician
able to cut through potential scandal with Teflon-coated ease.

``I would be lying to you if I said I didn't move uncomfortably in my
chair when I see the news,'' said Eyal Sevilla, 41, a Netanyahu fan who
sells cheese, fish, snacks and pickled goods in Jerusalem's
\href{http://en.machne.co.il/}{Mahane Yehuda} market.

Unless some of the major allegations stick, though, Mr. Sevilla said,
``I think the prime minister is very wonderful.''

Mr. Netanyahu, who first served as prime minister from 1996 to 1999 and
returned to office in 2009, is now in his fourth term, after prevailing
in a bitter and divisive election campaign last year.

The reasons Mr. Netanyahu has been able to maintain his magic act,
analysts say, are many. He has had no formidable opponent for years. He
draws support by stoking Israeli Jews' security fears. And, as the
number of disputed allegations mounts, the public may be tuning them
out, buying the prime minister's argument that opponents in a partisan
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/opinion/sunday/how-benjamin-netanyahu-is-crushing-israels-free-press.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FIsrael\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=1\&pgtype=collection}{media
landscape} are out to get him.

``He understands the psyche of Israelis like no one before him,'' said
\href{https://www.knesset.gov.il/mk/eng/mk_eng.asp?mk_individual_id_t=836}{Daniel
Ben}
\href{https://www.knesset.gov.il/mk/eng/mk_eng.asp?mk_individual_id_t=836}{Simon},
a political analyst and former Parliament member from the Labor Party,
which is in opposition to Mr. Netanyahu's Likud.

In philosophical terms, that means grasping the existential threat that
is the dark birthright of the Israeli Jewish population, said
\href{http://www.keevoon.com/about.html}{Mitchell Barak}, a pollster in
Jerusalem who worked for Mr. Netanyahu before he became prime minister.

``He's always been, and always will be, the prophet of doom,'' Mr. Barak
said of his former employer. ``For the Jewish population that sees Jews
being persecuted throughout that world, he's the guy who talks the
talk.''

Even when Israel is comparatively placid on the security front, as it
has been this year, Mr. Netanyahu is able to ``geniously exploit'' the
situation, said
\href{http://bgu.academia.edu/\%D7\%94\%D7\%A0\%D7\%A8\%D7\%99\%D7\%99\%D7\%98\%D7\%93\%D7\%94\%D7\%90\%D7\%9F\%D7\%9B\%D7\%9C\%D7\%91}{Henriette
Dahan Kalev}, an emeritus professor of political science at
\href{http://in.bgu.ac.il/en/Pages/default.aspx}{Ben Gurion University}.

``They are so much occupied with their everyday lives and so tired with
scandals,'' said Ms. Dahan Kalev, ``saying that you have to allow the
politicians to do their work, and to constantly investigate them and
threaten them might hinder them from doing that.''

Mr. Netanyahu, 66, may also be shielded by the sheer tortuousness of
some of the shenanigans he has been accused of.
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/1997/04/21/world/netanyahu-avoids-criminal-charges-in-scandal-inquiry.html}{In
a case} in 1997, it was claimed that he had appointed an attorney
general solely to obtain a plea bargain in a corruption case involving a
political ally --- in hopes of gaining support from that ally for an
Israeli troop withdrawal from most of the West Bank city of Hebron.
Prosecutors said they had a ``tangible suspicion'' of wrongdoing in the
case, but not enough evidence to bring charges.

``As far as I am concerned, and I think as far as the majority of the
public in Israel is concerned, this affair is behind us,'' Mr. Netanyahu
said at the time, although few believed he was right.

And so it went. Some cases involved alleged gifts or improper foreign
donations to Mr. Netanyahu and his family. Raviv Drucker, an
investigative journalist at Israel's Channel 10, said one case he had
reported on --- known as
\href{http://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/.premium-1.721152}{Bibi Tours,}
using the prime minister's nickname --- had started from claims that in
the hiatus between premierships, wealthy businesspeople and others
financed trips for Mr. Netanyahu and his family.

The case seemed to have blown over, but has been revived recently by the
Israeli police, Mr. Drucker said. Still, it is hard to be sure, because
police announcements on matters involving Mr. Netanyahu have been
consistently vague.

A case in point is the lawn furniture affair. Last year, the attorney
general ordered a criminal inquiry into spending at the prime minister's
residences. Among the reported allegations was that Mr. Netanyahu's
wife,
\href{http://www.pmo.gov.il/English/PrimeMinister/Pages/PrimeMinistersWife.aspx}{Sara},
had used government funds to buy a new set of lawn furniture ---
identical to a used set at one of the family's private residences ---
then had kept the new stuff and moved the secondhand furniture to the
official residence.

The police issued a cryptic statement on May 31 suggesting that they had
recommended criminal charges in the case. But a police spokeswoman,
asked about whether the furniture was still part of the case, would say
only, ``We're not getting into politics.''

Other claimed misdeeds have been a staple of Israeli scandal reporting.
In an episode known as
\href{http://www.jpost.com/Israel-News/Weinstein-to-rule-on-possible-criminal-probe-against-Netanyahus-in-Bottlegate-affair-389689}{Bottlegate},
Mrs. Netanyahu was accused of keeping thousands of shekels from
recycling fees on bottles that were, strictly speaking, state property.
In another embarrassment, a politically connected electrician reportedly
received handsome payments for extensive weekend work, including during
Yom Kippur, when most of the country shuts down. The state also lost two
\href{http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/05/31/sara-netanyahu-found-guilty-of-abusive-treatment-of-employee/}{civil
cases} against former employees of the prime minister's residence, both
claiming bizarre and abusive treatment by Mrs. Netanyahu.

``Many employees in the prime minister's residence could testify to the
excellent, warm and humane treatment that they have received from the
prime minister's wife,'' the family said in response to one of the
verdicts.

The latest inquiry involves yet another claim of illegal foreign
donations, and a former chief of staff for Mr. Netanyahu has been
subjected to marathon rounds of
\href{http://www.jpost.com/Israel-News/Politics-And-Diplomacy/Netanyahu-Mandelblit-pour-cold-water-on-probe-prime-ministers-fund-raiser-460776}{questioning}.
The left-leaning Haaretz newspaper
\href{http://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/.premium-1.731830}{wrote} last
month that the police were investigating whether the money, donated to
Mr. Netanyahu, had been ``transferred to the accounts of his wife and
son, to be used for their personal expenses.''

The attorney general, Avichai Mandelblit, said at a conference of senior
legal and judicial officials on July 20, Ynet reported, that his close
working relationship with the prime minister would not deter him from
taking a critical line in the inquiry.

``This is a question of professionalism,'' Mr. Mandelblit was quoted as
saying, ``and you need to trust me to make that separation.''

\href{http://www.smplaw.co.il/list.asp?categoryId=127\&id=686}{David N.
Shimron}, Mr. Netanyahu's lawyer, declined to comment on any of the
allegations, current or past. But at a boisterous Parliament session
last month, the prime minister fended off questions from lawmakers on
several recent cases.

``There is no fire. There is no smoke,'' Mr. Netanyahu said. ``There is
a lot of hot air.''

Whatever the outcome of the current allegations, the high-wire act
cannot go on forever, said Amiel Ungar, a political scientist and
columnist who lives in the settlement of Tekoa in the occupied West
Bank.

``All politicians, even the most successful ones, reach a sell-by
date,'' Mr. Ungar said, adding that he thought Mr. Netanyahu had reached
his before last year's election.

``I would say what saved him was the sense that he was being hounded by
the media,'' he said. ``He was able to play the underdog, persecuted
role, and it worked.''

Mr. Ben Simon said only irrefutable evidence of financial wrongdoing
could produce a scandal large enough to bring Mr. Netanyahu down. In
that case, support for the prime minister would finally vanish, and the
fall would be one for the ages, Mr. Ben Simon said.

``It will end up on a Shakespearean stage,'' he said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
