Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Jobs,
School Reopenings, Summer Desserts: Your Friday Evening Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DFQIH0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jobs-school-reopenings-summer-desserts-your-friday-evening-briefing}{%
\section{Jobs, School Reopenings, Summer Desserts: Your Friday Evening
Briefing}\label{jobs-school-reopenings-summer-desserts-your-friday-evening-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know at the end of the day.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/remy-tumin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/10/multimedia/author-remy-tumin/author-remy-tumin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marcus-payadue}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-marcus-payadue/author-marcus-payadue-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/remy-tumin}{Remy Tumin}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marcus-payadue}{Marcus
Payadue}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 7, 2020, 6:26 p.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's}
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/nyt-now-evening-briefing?module=inline}{\emph{the
sign-up}}\emph{.)}

\emph{Good evening. Here's the latest.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/briefing/07pm-briefing-us-ss-slide-TBOZ/07pm-briefing-us-ss-slide-TBOZ-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{1. The U.S. economic recovery slowed in July} as faltering
businesses reduced the pace of hiring.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/us-employers-added-1-8-million-jobs-in-july-despite-a-coronavirus-surge}{Employers
added 1.8 million jobs in July}, well below the 4.8 million boost in
jobs in June. That means that less than half of the 22 million jobs lost
in March and April have been restored. But economists warn that
recovering the remaining ground will be a challenge.

The latest figures from the Labor Department come as lawmakers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?\#link-232a7bee}{failed
to reach a deal on a coronavirus relief package} that would extend
unemployment benefits that expired at the end of July.

Both the White House and top Democrats said they remained deeply divided
after 10 days of crisis negotiations. President Trump's advisers said
they would recommend that he bypass Congress and act on his own through
a series of executive orders, as soon as this weekend. It was not clear
what power Mr. Trump might have to move unilaterally to extend jobless
aid or otherwise redirect federal relief money as he sees fit.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

\textbf{2. Without a new pandemic relief measure,} 30 million to 40
million tenants are at risk of being evicted in the coming month.

According to a report by dozens of academics and housing advocates, a
broad swath of renters had until recently been protected by the \$600 a
month in supplemental unemployment payments, but many are now falling
behind. The bills are piling up just as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/economy/housing-economy-eviction-renters.html}{several
federal, state and local eviction moratoriums are expiring}. Above,
protests in Los Angeles last month.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/upshot/unemployment-benefits-racial-disparity.html}{Black
workers will be hurt the most} if Congress doesn't extend jobless
benefits, because a disproportionate number of them live in states with
the lowest benefit levels. An extra \$600 a week smoothed out sharp
differences in benefits among states.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times

\textbf{3. New York State schools can reopen,} Gov. Andrew Cuomo said,
solidifying plans to make New York City one of the few big U.S. cities
to hold in-person classes.

Under the governor's announcement,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/nyregion/cuomo-schools-reopening.html}{schools
can decide to open} as long as they are in a region where the average
rate of positive tests is below 5 percent. Most of the state, including
New York City, has maintained a positivity rate of about 1 percent.

Many educators spent their summers planning how to safely reopen
classes. But with the pandemic surging across much of the country, those
plans are shelved. Now educators are spending the little time they have
left
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/remote-learning-fall-2020.html}{to
improve online instruction}, which failed to reach and engage many
children in the spring.

Here's what some students had to say about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-students.html}{their
first week back at school}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times

\textbf{4. Russia continues to meddle} in the election to aid President
Trump, using a range of measures to denigrate Joe Biden,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html}{intelligence
officials said}.

In the first public assessment of the 2020 campaign, William Evanina,
the director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center,
cited efforts coming out of pro-Russia forces in Ukraine to damage Mr.
Biden and Kremlin-linked figures who ``are also seeking to boost
President Trump's candidacy on social media and Russian television.''

At the same time, the officials said China preferred that Mr. Trump be
defeated in November and was weighing whether to take more aggressive
actions in the election.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Kiel Mutschelknaus

\textbf{5. We're still unpacking the implications} of **** the Trump
administration's executive orders on WeChat and TikTok.

The orders, signed late last night, appear to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/technology/trump-wechat-tiktok-china.html}{seek
a ban on the two smartphone apps}from operating in the U.S. or
interacting with U.S. companies because of national security concerns.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/tiktok-security-threat.html}{Intelligence
officials have detected no such threat}.

The order essentially sets a 45-day deadline for an acquisition of
TikTok, which is in talks with Microsoft, by a U.S. company. That means
the White House is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/technology/trump-tiktok-wechat.html}{effectively
negotiating --- in public --- a sale between a foreign company} and an
American company, our colleague Shira Ovide explains in On Tech.

With much of the Chinese internet locked behind the Great Firewall,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/business/trump-china-wechat-tiktok.html}{WeChat
is one of the few digital bridges} connecting China to the rest of the
world. Light on details, the Trump decree could prove cosmetic, crushing
or something in between.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...KC Nwakalor for The New York Times

\textbf{6. Heat waves are longer and more frequent} nearly everywhere.
But the pain of extreme heat is profoundly unequal.

For the past 60 years, every decade has been hotter than the last, and
2020 is poised to be among the hottest years ever. And if you're poor
and marginalized, you're likely to be much more vulnerable to extreme
heat.

That could mean no access to air-conditioning or electricity when you
need it; no choice but to work outdoors under a blistering sun; or a
drought so punishing it kills your crops. Nightfall offers a bit of
respite.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/06/climate/climate-change-inequality-heat.html?}{See
six places living that reality now}. Above, Faith Osi cooled down on her
cassava farm in Obrikom, Nigeria.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Daniel Arnold

\textbf{7. Five months into the coronavirus crisis,} New York City is
slowly creeping back to life.

But with a season of relief comes a season of grief. Dodai Stewart, an
editor on our Metro desk and lifelong New Yorker, traced the pandemic
from the day she packed up her desk (and left behind two boxes of Girl
Scout cookies) to a summer of unrest and protests ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/style/coronavirus-nyc-historic-season.html?}{proof
that ``New York had not been conquered.''} Above, Little Italy in
Manhattan in May.

The first half of the year has been the emotional equivalent of an
ultramarathon
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/michelle-obama-depression.html}{even
for Michelle Obama}). But it's vital to have some stress-reducing
strategies available that work quickly and efficiently to help you hit
the reset button.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/well/mind/five-minute-coronavirus-stress-resets.html}{Here
are a few ways to get unstuck from your anxiety}.

For some New Yorkers that means ditching the city altogether.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/realestate/coronavirus-escape-suburbs-new-york.html}{Here's
how to pick which suburb is right for you}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Haruka Sakaguchi for The New York Times

\textbf{8. ``I felt we had finally} come to the America Aunt Harriet
would be proud of.''

That's Michele Jones Galvin, above right, the
great-great-great-grandniece of Harriet Tubman, on what her aunt would
think about America in the summer of 2020. She's pictured with her
mother, Joyce Stokes Jones.

One hundred years after women in America won the right to vote, we asked
descendants of Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Frederick
Douglass and more about
t\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/07/us/suffragists-descendants.html?}{he
movement's legacy in America today}. It's part of our ongoing coverage
this month, marking a century since the passage of the 19th Amendment.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...NASA, ESA; R. Kirshner and M. Mutchler; Harvard-Smithsonian
Center for Astrophysics

\textbf{9. More than 30 years ago,} astronomers observed a massive star
blowing apart in a nearby galaxy. They didn't know what happened to its
core --- until now.

Scientists now believe the core of Supernova 1987 is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/science/supernova-neutron-star-sn1987a.html}{hiding
in ``a blob'' of dust} emitting almost 100 times as much energy as our
own sun.

If that heat source proves to be a neutron star, which is the densest
stable configuration of matter in the universe, it would be the youngest
example yet found of one of nature's most extreme creations.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Melissa Clark/The New York Times

\textbf{10. And finally,} a sweet treat to end the week.

The charm of a Bundt lies in its fanciness --- the mold of the cake pan
adds just enough dazzle. But in reality, a Bundt is just a scaled-up
loaf cake: easy to bake, hard to stop eating. Our food columnist Melissa
Clarke suggests this showstopping
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/dining/blueberry-bundt-cake.html}{blueberry
Bundt cake}, finished with a jewel-toned glaze, no special occasion
required.

For more ideas on what to cook this weekend,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/dining/what-to-cook-this-weekend.html}{check
out these suggestions from Sam Sifton}, our Food editor. Grilled peaches
anyone?

Have a delicious weekend.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.}

\emph{Want to catch up on past briefings?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/series/us-evening-briefing}{\emph{You
can browse them here}}\emph{.}

\emph{What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at}
\href{mailto:briefing@NYTimes.com?subject=Evening\%20Briefing\%20Feedback}{\emph{briefing@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
