Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology/personaltech}{Personal
Tech}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/technology/personaltech}{Personal Tech}\textbar{}What Is
5G? Here's What You Need to Know About the New Cellular Network

\url{https://nyti.ms/2GLJLFi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{what-is-5g-heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-new-cellular-network}{%
\section{What Is 5G? Here's What You Need to Know About the New Cellular
Network}\label{what-is-5g-heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-new-cellular-network}}

The transition to new fifth-generation networks, known as 5G, will
affect how you use smartphones and many other devices. Let's talk about
the essentials.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/01/01/business/01FiveG-illo-print/merlin_148512924_0b1f8c44-4f83-4d46-abd2-6d533b7b9e47-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Don Clark

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 31, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2019/01/09/5g-celulares-tecnologia/}{Leer
en
español}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/technology/20190111/5g-what-you-need-to-know/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes.com/technology/20190111/5g-what-you-need-to-know/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

A big technology shift is underway, bringing a once-in-a-decade upgrade
to the wireless systems that deliver data to mobile phones.

But this is not just about faster smartphones. The transition
to\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/22/technology/5g-is-a-new-frontier-at-mobile-world-congress.html}{new
fifth-generation cellular networks}, known as 5G for short, will also
affect many other kinds of devices, including industrial robots,
security cameras, drones and cars that send traffic data to one another.
This new era will
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/06/technology/companies-countries-battling-5g.html}{leap
ahead of current wireless technology}, known as 4G, by offering mobile
internet speeds that will let people download entire movies within
seconds and most likely bring big changes to video games, sports and
shopping.

Officials in the United States and China see 5G networks as a
competitive edge. The faster networks could help spread the use of
artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge technologies.

On Friday, Ajit Pai, the chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, said in a call with reporters that the government would hold
a big auction of the wireless spectrum used for the technology. The
spectrum could be sold to companies like Verizon and AT\&T. Mr. Pai will
appear with President Trump on Friday to discuss the plan.

Last year, Samsung demonstrated prototypes of 5G smartphones that are
expected to operate on both Verizon and AT\&T networks. Many other
manufacturers are racing to follow suit, though Apple is not expected in
the initial 5G wave. Analysts predict that iPhones with the new
technology won't arrive until 2020. An Apple spokeswoman declined to
comment.

Here's what you need to know.

\hypertarget{what-exactly-is-5g}{%
\subsection{What exactly is 5G?}\label{what-exactly-is-5g}}

Strictly speaking, 5G is a set of technical ground rules that define the
workings of a cellular network, including the radio frequencies used and
how various components like computer chips and antennas handle radio
signals and exchange data.

Since the first cellphones were demonstrated in the 1970s, engineers
from multiple companies have convened to agree on new sets of
specifications for cellular networks, which are designated a new
technology generation every decade or so. To get the benefits of 5G,
users will have to buy new phones, while carriers will need to install
new transmission equipment to offer the faster service.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/07/technology/china-huawei-5g-standards.html}{\emph{One
of China's biggest tech companies is at the center of the fight over the
future of 5G}}.{]}

\hypertarget{how-fast-will-5g-be}{%
\subsection{How fast will 5G be?}\label{how-fast-will-5g-be}}

The answer depends on where you live, which wireless services you use
and when you decide to take the 5G plunge.

Qualcomm, the wireless chip maker, said it had demonstrated peak 5G
download speeds of 4.5 gigabytes a second, but predicts initial median
speeds of about 1.4 gigabytes. That translates to roughly 20 times
faster than the current 4G experience.

The 5G speeds will be particularly noticeable in higher-quality
streaming video.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/22/technology/what-5g-will-mean-for-you.html}{And
downloading a typical movie} at the median speeds cited by Qualcomm
would take 17 seconds with 5G, compared with six minutes for 4G.

Rather than remembering to download a season of a favorite TV show
before heading to the airport, for example, you could do it while in
line to board a plane, said Justin Denison, a Samsung senior vice
president.

\hypertarget{is-that-the-only-speed-that-matters}{%
\subsection{Is that the only speed that
matters?}\label{is-that-the-only-speed-that-matters}}

No. There's another kind of speed, a lag known as latency, that may
become even more important with 5G.

Issue a command now on a smartphone --- like starting a web search ---
and the response isn't exactly immediate. A lag of 50 to several hundred
milliseconds is common, partly because signals often must pass between
different carrier switching centers; 5G, which uses newer networking
technology, was designed to reduce latency to a few milliseconds. It was
also designed to deliver signals more reliably than earlier cellular
networks, which today frequently drop bits of data that aren't essential
for tasks like watching movies on a phone.

That improvement could bring many benefits, notably in fields such as
virtual reality. The highest-quality VR applications now typically
require bulky headsets that are connected by wire to nearby personal
computers that generate 3-D images. With 5G, that would be offloaded
wirelessly to other machines, freeing users to move and making it easier
to develop goggles the size of eyeglasses, said Cristiano Amon,
president of Qualcomm's semiconductor business.

In the related field of augmented reality, people could point a
smartphone camera at a football game and see both live video on the
display and superimposed player statistics or other data, said Patrick
Moorhead, an analyst at Moor Insights \& Strategy.

And 5G's impact extends to medicine and other fields that increasingly
rely on high-speed connections.

``If you talk about remote surgery or connected cars, you don't want
latency times to be too long,'' said Fredrik Jejdling, an executive vice
president at Ericsson, a maker of cellular equipment.

\hypertarget{when-will-5g-be-here}{%
\subsection{When will 5G be here?}\label{when-will-5g-be-here}}

For most of us, the precise timing is uncertain.

AT\&T has actually
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2018/12/18/18146246/att-5g-us-launch-hotspot-service-plan-price}{switched
on its mobile 5G service} in some cities. But smartphones aren't ready
yet for a direct connection to 5G networks. So AT\&T will initially
market a 5G hot-spot device, made by Netgear, that can funnel wireless
broadband connections to nearby phones and computers using Wi-Fi.

Verizon is already selling a 5G-branded service, based on its own
variant of the technology, to provide wireless internet connections to
homes in limited parts of cities like Houston and Indianapolis. The
carrier predicts that it will begin serving smartphone users in the
first half of 2019, without identifying cities or specific timing.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/02/technology/5g-cellular-service.html}{\emph{Who
decides where 5G cell service will go?}}{]}

Sprint has said it would offer 5G service in some cities in 2019. Its
prospective merger partner, T-Mobile, has stressed a nationwide 5G
launch in 2020, but said it was installing gear in 30 cities that would
be ready when 5G smartphones appeared in 2019.

Countries expected to follow the United States with 2019 rollouts of 5G
include Britain, Germany, Switzerland, China, South Korea and Australia,
according to a timetable compiled by Qualcomm.

{[}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/26/us/politics/huawei-china-us-5g-technology.html}{\emph{In
the 5G race, the United States is pushing its allies to fight back
against China's Huawei}}\emph{.}{]}

\hypertarget{will-consumers-see-the-full-benefits-of-5g}{%
\subsection{Will consumers see the full benefits of
5G?}\label{will-consumers-see-the-full-benefits-of-5g}}

Verizon and AT\&T will introduce their 5G offerings with the first use
of high frequencies that are known by the phrase
``\href{https://www.engadget.com/2018/07/23/how-5g-makes-use-of-millimeter-waves/}{millimeter
wave.}'' Using this, the wireless providers can pump data at high
speeds, but the signals don't travel as far. So the two carriers are
expected to first target densely populated areas --- ``parts or
pockets'' of cities, Andre Fuetsch, president of AT\&T Labs, put it.

Sprint and T-Mobile plan to start with lower frequencies. The result may
be somewhat slower initial speeds but broader range, said Michael
Thelander, president of Signals Research, a wireless consultancy.

Still, 5G's full benefits aren't expected until American carriers
upgrade key central switching equipment, which may not happen until late
2019 or sometime in 2020.

\hypertarget{so-should-i-buy-a-smartphone-that-works-with-5g-right-away}{%
\subsection{So should I buy a smartphone that works with 5G right
away?}\label{so-should-i-buy-a-smartphone-that-works-with-5g-right-away}}

A consumer study sponsored by Intel in August found that 58 percent of
Americans were not knowledgeable about 5G or had not heard of it, though
another survey in December by the chip maker indicated solid demand once
the benefits were explained.

Confusion actually could increase over the short term because of some
technical details.

You have a lot to consider. For example, while Verizon and AT\&T plan to
later add 5G services based on lower frequencies that offer wider
coverage, the first 5G handsets may not work with those portions of
their networks. So the reach of 5G signals for those phones may remain
limited.

``I wouldn't buy a 5G phone until it supports 5G in one of the
lower-frequency bands,'' Mr. Thelander said. ``For all operators but
Sprint, this means at least late 2019, and more likely 2020.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
