\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Where Has Your Tween
Been During the Pandemic? On This Gaming Site

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Y8GEO1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/dining/lobster-salad-recipe.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Make:
  Lobster Salad}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-at-home-quick-exercises.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Sneak
  In: Exercise}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{See:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/at-home/coronavirus-fall-patio-furniture.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Deck
  Out: Your Porch}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/business/00roblox1-print/merlin_175488597_aaf83b6d-54d7-4633-929f-5814cb11ebec-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{where-has-your-tween-been-during-the-pandemic-on-this-gaming-site}{%
\section{Where Has Your Tween Been During the Pandemic? On This Gaming
Site}\label{where-has-your-tween-been-during-the-pandemic-on-this-gaming-site}}

Millions of children have flocked to the online gaming site Roblox since
March. That's helping game developers, some as young as 16, make a lot
of money.

Garvey Mortley, 12, with her mother, Amber Coleman-Mortley. Garvey is
spending a lot more time in the pandemic playing on the gaming site
Roblox.Credit...Andrew Mangum for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kellen-browning}{Kellen
Browning}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

When her middle school closed in March, Garvey Mortley stopped going to
lacrosse practice and playing drums in the school band. With so much
time at home, she leaned into another interest: Roblox, an online gaming
site and app with Lego-like characters and millions of virtual worlds to
explore.

Sprawled on the floor of her living room in Bethesda, Md., Garvey began
logging more hours in the online universe, building virtual houses,
adopting digital pets and racing other players in obstacle courses. She
said she now plays Roblox on her laptop for up to five hours a day while
chatting with friends on her phone, up from an hour or two before
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=1_Show\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=cfb8d020-dd71-11ea-bf10-75191c97e453}{the
pandemic}.

``It's like my main passion,'' said Garvey, 12. ``It's pretty diverse,
and you can meet people around the world.''

The coronavirus has created some pandemic winners as people shop in
droves
on\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/30/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#amazons-earnings-double-as-sales-surge}{Amazon},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/technology/peloton-boom-workout-virus.html}{buy
Peloton bikes} to exercise at home and head to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/style/drive-in-theaters-coronavirus.html}{drive-in
movies}. For children, there are pandemic victors, too --- and chief
among them is 14-year-old Roblox, which was already popular but has
become wildly so since people have been urged to stay at home.

Since February, the number of active players on Roblox has jumped about
35 percent to reach 164 million in July,
\href{https://blog.rtrack.live/index.php/2020/08/02/roblox-continues-upward-ascent-with-164-million-monthly-active-users/}{according
to RTrack}, a site that tracks Roblox data. About three quarters of
American children ages 9 to 12 are now on the platform, according to
Roblox. And players spent 3 billion hours on the site and app in July,
twice as much as they did in February, the company said.

Inside Roblox, which is free to play, gamers create an avatar. They can
play the site's millions of games, bringing their character into
environments ranging from tropical islands to haunted castles and
bustling towns. Their avatars can engage in first-person combat,
decipher puzzles or participate in egg hunts while chatting and
interacting with other players. Gamers pay real money --- often \$5 or
\$10 at a time --- to become premium members and to purchase an in-game
currency called Robux, which lets them buy clothing, weapons and even
hot air balloons for their characters.

``At a time like this, where people are housebound, being able to escape
into the digital world and have these kinds of fun, imaginative
experiences with a friend, is very, very relevant,'' said Craig Donato,
Roblox's chief business officer.

For players, Roblox has an element of never-ending discovery because
independent developers create more than 20 million new games a year for
the platform. And for those developers --- who are mostly teenagers,
college students and young adults operating solo or with a small team
--- the recent spike in Roblox's popularity means boom times for them,
too, since they get a cut of the money that users are spending on their
games.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/17/business/00JPvirus-roblox1-print/merlin_175483119_5e51f65f-bdca-4c43-95c0-d632bd154e7b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

One beneficiary is Anne Shoemaker, 20, who said she moved from Palm
Coast, Fla., to Silicon Valley two years ago with \$100 in her pocket to
live near other developers as she coded games for Roblox. For a while,
she said, she didn't earn enough from the platform to justify turning it
into a full-time job.

But after the pandemic hit, Ms. Shoemaker saw a surge of interest in her
two Roblox games, Mermaid Life, a fashion-focused role-playing game, and
My Droplets, a pet simulation game. Players have paid for extra content
in those games, and for the hats she made for users' avatars that she
sells across the site.

Ms. Shoemaker said she has now made about \$500,000 through Roblox, most
of that since March. Before the pandemic, she could afford to pay just
one or two people to help her. Now her game studio,
\href{https://www.fullflowerstudio.com/}{Fullflower Studio}, employs 14
contractors and she is plotting new games.

``It feels incredible,'' Ms. Shoemaker said. ``People used to tell my
mom, `Stop letting her play this video game; it's not going to get her
anywhere.' And it's getting me somewhere.''

Roblox said it has more than 2 million developers, 345,000 of whom make
money and who split their profits 50-50 with the company. Dozens of the
top developers make millions of dollars, the company said, and top games
in the past have generated an average of \$2 million to \$3 million a
year.

Revenue from Roblox's mobile app, which most players use, totaled \$493
million in the first half of the year, up from \$228 million in the same
period a year ago, according to SensorTower, an analytics firm. Roblox
declined to disclose its financials, except to say it was cash-flow
positive.

Roblox, which is based in San Mateo, Calif., was founded in 2006 by Erik
Cassel and David Baszucki, who were engineers and entrepreneurs. Mr.
Baszucki is the chief executive; Mr. Cassel died of cancer in 2013. The
start-up has raised \$335 million from investors including Meritech
Capital Partners and the Chinese internet giant Tencent. In February,
when it raised fresh financing from investors including Andreessen
Horowitz, it was
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/roblox-raises-150-million-in-funding-in-bet-on-metaverse-11582754400}{valued
at \$4 billion}.

Image

In the Roblox game Jailbreak, people's avatars are prisoners attempting
to escape from jail or are police officers trying to keep them
imprisoned.Credit...Roblox

In Roblox's early years, its growth was slow. But activity began picking
up in 2015 and 2016 as technological tweaks made it easier to play on
phones and Microsoft's Xbox. Roblox has now become at least as popular
as Minecraft, one of its main competitors, said Craig Sherman, a venture
capitalist at Meritech.

Even with its recent surge in activity, Mr. Sherman said, Roblox is ``on
the cusp'' of more growth. He said the platform has become a foundation
for people to start businesses on, similar to YouTube.

``Roblox is becoming this generation's version of going to the mall or
downtown with your friends, and Covid probably helps accelerate that,''
he said.

Some children who grew up on Roblox have never left. Alex Balfanz, 21,
started coding games on Roblox when he was 9. In 2017, as a high school
senior in Orlando, Fla., he released a Roblox game called Jailbreak, in
which people's avatars are prisoners attempting to escape from jail or
police officers trying to keep them imprisoned.

Mr. Balfanz said he watched in astonishment as Jailbreak tallied more
than 70,000 players at once on its first day. The game has now been
played more than 4 billion times and makes several million dollars a
year, which Mr. Balfanz said he splits with his business partner.

In the pandemic, Jailbreak has reached even greater heights. Mr. Balfanz
said that on the best days, the game has 80,000 to 90,000 people playing
at once, compared with 40,000 to 60,000 before.

``It was a pleasant surprise, something I hadn't really thought of
happening in the midst of all the unfortunate circumstances brought by
the pandemic,'' he said.

With his earnings, Mr. Balfanz, now a senior at Duke University, said he
has taken some vacations, paid his college tuition (Duke's tuition is
nearly \$60,000 a year) and bought a Tesla. He has attained celebrity
status on Roblox, and said he is swarmed by star-struck players whenever
he logs on.

Image

``It's like my main passion,'' Garvey said of Roblox. ``It's pretty
diverse, and you can meet people around the world.''Credit...Andrew
Mangum for The New York Times

But the dangers of the offline world have sometimes seeped into Roblox,
including reports of
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/extremists-creep-roblox-online-game-popular-children-n1045056}{extremist
groups} attempting to recruit children and the appearance of
\href{https://techcrunch.com/2018/07/18/roblox-responds-to-the-hack-that-allowed-a-childs-avatar-to-be-raped-in-its-game/}{sexually
explicit content} in games.

Mr. Donato said that safety was Roblox's top priority. The company
reviews game content, has extensive parental controls and filters
profanity and personally identifiable information out of chats, he said.

``We see all sorts of major real-life events, from Covid-19 to racial
discrimination somehow impacting our platform,'' he said.

Back in Bethesda, Garvey recently used Roblox to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/well/family/how-to-raise-an-anti-racist-kid.html}{educate
others on racism}. When players participated in virtual Black Lives
Matter protests in the game this summer, she noticed some were darkening
their avatar's skin color, ostensibly a statement of solidarity with
Black people. But to Garvey, who is Black, it seemed more like ``virtual
blackface.''

Image

Garvey urged Roblox players to dress their avatars in Black Lives Matter
T-shirts instead of changing their skin color.Credit...Andrew Mangum for
The New York Times

So Garvey made a
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=2\&v=BfO_ZK0Kvj8\&feature=emb_logo}{YouTube
video} explaining the history of blackface in the United States and
urged Roblox users to dress their avatars in Black Lives Matter T-shirts
instead of changing their skin color.

``I took an educational route,'' Garvey said. ``I was trying to just
seem a little helpful, not just angry at everyone.''

Garvey's mother, Amber Coleman-Mortley, said she was proud of how Garvey
reacted. She said she views Roblox as an ideal place for education,
especially with in-person learning and socializing curtailed.

``Play is the way that the human mind learns best,'' she said.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
