Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Germany's Coronavirus
Protests: Anti-Vaxxers, Anticapitalists, Neo-Nazis

\url{https://nyti.ms/2z9axEI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{germanys-coronavirus-protests-anti-vaxxers-anticapitalists-neo-nazis}{%
\section{Germany's Coronavirus Protests: Anti-Vaxxers, Anticapitalists,
Neo-Nazis}\label{germanys-coronavirus-protests-anti-vaxxers-anticapitalists-neo-nazis}}

The pandemic marginalized the far right, as Germans rallied behind
Angela Merkel. But the reopening has brought them back, and they are
preparing to seize new opportunities.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/18/world/18virus-germany-farright2/merlin_172580733_ea7fea6f-4b24-4a0c-b8dc-cd5a7de6312d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katrin-bennhold}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/13/multimedia/author-katrin-bennhold/author-katrin-bennhold-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katrin-bennhold}{Katrin Bennhold}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

BERLIN --- Outside Germany's Parliament building, a vegan celebrity cook
grabbed the mic and shouted that he was ``ready to die'' to stop
self-serving elites from using the pandemic to topple the world order.
Some distance away, a group of women discussed how Bill Gates was
plotting to force immunization on the population. Youngsters sporting
cardboard cutouts of the German constitution chanted: ``End the corona
dictatorship!'' Few wore masks, and those that did came with slogans
like ``Merkel's muzzle.''

Even as Germany is celebrated as
Europe's\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/04/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-death-rate.html}{foremost
example of pandemic management}, an eclectic protest movement that began
last month with a few dozen people marching against coronavirus
restrictions has ballooned into more than 10,000 demonstrators in cities
across the country.

The one driving force behind the mobilization is the country's far
right, particularly the Alternative for Germany party, or AfD, which had
been marginalized by the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/19/world/coronavirus-news.html}{pandemic}.
Now, the AfD's leaders see the protests as a first step toward moving
back into the national conversation, using them to position their
message for the months ahead, when Germany must confront job losses and
a battered economy.

``The crisis is coming, it isn't here yet,'' said Nicolaus Fest, head of
Berlin's AfD chapter, who was protesting near the Brandenburg Gate on
Saturday. ``Some time soon, a lot of people will be unemployed.''

Alongside
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/10/health/vaccines-protest-doctors.html}{anti-vaxxers},
anticapitalists and ordinary citizens concerned about job losses and
safety at reopened nurseries and schools, the marches have attracted
neo-Nazis, hooligans and, consistently, members of the AfD, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/25/world/europe/germany-election-afd.html?action=click\&module=RelatedCoverage\&pgtype=Article\&region=Footer}{party
best known for its noisy nationalism} and anti-immigrant views.

They rarely organize the protests. But the AfD and more extreme
far-right groups are trying to capitalize on the discontent as they
begin positioning themselves for what may be a much uglier political
scene some months from now if the economy deteriorates further, as most
economists expect.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/18/world/18virus-germany-farright5/merlin_172241505_f4e81e72-2d1c-475f-8f0e-280aea161f54-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``When the depression hits and people really start feeling it, they will
start asking: Who do we share the little that is left with? Who belongs
and who does not?'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/magazine/the-prophet-of-germanys-new-right.html?searchResultPosition=3}{Götz
Kubitschek}, a far-right publisher and the most prominent ideologue of
Germany's so-called New Right.

Then, Mr. Kubitschek predicted in a recent interview, ``it will become a
question of identity.''

Germany's domestic intelligence office, which recently classified both
Mr. Kubitschek's Institute for State Politics and a group of AfD
politicians close to him as extremist, is worried.

``We see a trend that extremists, especially far-right extremists, are
weaponizing the demonstrations,'' Thomas Haldenwang, president of the
agency, told the German newspaper Welt on Sunday. ``There is a risk that
far-right extremists, with their image of who the enemy is and their
ambitions to undermine the state, will take the lead of a movement that
for now is attended mostly by citizens who are loyal to the
constitution.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``We are concerned that extremists are using the current situation in
exactly the same way as the so-called refugee crisis,'' Mr. Haldenwang
said.

Some have already compared the coronavirus protests to the protests
against the refugee crisis in 2015, when Pegida --- Patriotic Europeans
Against the Islamization of the West --- drew hundreds and then
thousands of marchers every week before turning into a potent incubator
of far-right extremism.

``We are the people,'' the slogan associated with Pegida marches, is now
popular at the coronavirus protests, too.

Then as now, Chancellor Angela Merkel was celebrated as an exemplary
leader who navigated her country through extraordinary circumstances.

Image

Health workers collected samples for coronavirus~antibodies in
Munich.~Germany got through the first wave of infections with a
relatively low death toll, leading some to protest the economic fallout
of the lockdown.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times

But in early 2016, the mood began to shift. A year later, the AfD became
the first far-right party to enter the federal Parliament since World
War II. It is now the biggest opposition party, with seats in every
state legislature in the country.

Some lawmakers from Ms. Merkel's Christian Democrats speak privately of
a sense of déjà vu --- and worry that by the time the next election is
scheduled, in the fall of 2021, the AfD might once again eat into
conservative votes.

The pandemic arrived in Germany at a moment when the influence of the
far right, and its ability to crack open the political system from the
local level up, was strong. Mainstream parties, Ms. Merkel's Christian
Democrats included, worried about losing votes.

As recently as February, the fallout from an inconclusive election in
the eastern state of Thuringia, where a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/26/world/europe/afd-election-east-germany-hoecke.html}{particularly
extreme chapter} of the AfD became the second-strongest party,
ultimately
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/10/world/europe/annegret-kramp-karrenbauer-resign.html}{brought
down} the chancellor's anointed successor in Berlin.

When the virus began spreading, the situation changed. Almost overnight,
Germans rallied
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/world/europe/coronavirus-merkel-germany.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{behind
their chancellor} and the monthlong shutdown that slowed the spread of
the virus and allowed the country to get through its first wave of
infections with a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/04/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-death-rate.html}{relatively
low death toll}.

Image

Outside a coronavirus unit at a hospital in Munich. Like many Western
leaders, Chancellor Angela Merkel is finding it is easier to enter a
lockdown than it is to leave it.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New
York Times

But now that very success has become one thing driving the protests.

``They told us this virus was so dangerous that we had to give up all
our democratic freedoms,'' said Sabine Martin, a mother of two who
marched in Berlin on Saturday for the third weekend in a row. ``But we
are no fools: Our hospitals are half empty.''

``I'm not afraid of this virus,'' she added. ``I'm afraid of the
recession.''

Some call it the prevention paradox: Because Germany has been relatively
successful in containing the disease, it is becoming harder to persuade
people that the pandemic still presents a real danger, and easier for
conspiracy theorists and populists to spin narratives of deceit.

``This so-called pandemic is nothing but the flu,'' scoffed Robert
Farle, a state lawmaker of the AfD. He has been joining protests in his
eastern hometown, Magdeburg.

In Berlin, the AfD dominated one of about 20 protests, each limited to
50 people, near the Brandenburg Gate. ``Germany,'' ``Constitution'' and
``Freedom,'' their signs read.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

But in conversation, the topic quickly returned to the AfD's hallmark
issue of immigration. Several of the protesters felt vindicated by a
crisis that forced Germany to swiftly close its borders.

``They shut the borders, they stopped refugees from coming in,'' Mr.
Kubitschek, the far-right publisher, said. ``It proves that it can all
be done.''

Image

From anti-vaxxers to anticapitalists and Neo-Nazis, protesters like
those seen on Alexanderplatz, in Berlin, are demanding a return to
normal life.Credit...Emile Ducke for The New York Times

For now, despite the noise they make, the protesters remain a small
minority.
\href{https://presse.wdr.de/plounge/tv/das_erste/2020/05/20200507_ard_deutschlandtrend_3.html}{A
recent survey found that two in three Germans} are satisfied with the
government's response to the crisis. Six out of 10 say they are not
worried if certain freedoms have to be curtailed for longer. Ms.
Merkel's party remains the most popular in the country, with nearly four
in 10 voters saying they would support it, the highest level since 2017.

But the European Commission expects the German economy to shrink by 6.5
percent this year, the worst performance since World War II. The AfD's
popularity, which early on in the crisis slumped below 10 percent, has
begun to edge up.

Many worry that a prolonged economic slump might open up new voter
potential for the party, which has found most of its support in the
former Communist East. The biggest protests in recent weeks, however,
have been in Stuttgart, the wealthy western heartland of Germany's car
industry.

In the seven years since the AfD was founded, Germany has consistently
enjoyed economic growth and low unemployment, said Matthias Quent, an
expert on far-right extremism and the director of
\href{https://www.idz-jena.de/ueber-das-institut/mitarbeitende/}{an
institute} that studies democracy and civil society. ``We just don't
know what the AfD looks like in a recession,'' Mr. Quent said. ``It
worries me,'' he added. ``Historically, big recessions tend to feed
populist narratives.''

Image

A nail salon in Munich after the reopening this month.~The German
economy shrank by 2.2 percent in the first quarter, the most in more
than a decade.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times

And it is not just the AfD that has seen the fallout from the
coronavirus crisis as an opportunity.

Message boards are flush with far-right conspiracy theories and prepper
groups, which have long fantasized about a crisis so deep that it would
lead to the collapse of Germany's liberal order, said Stephan Kramer,
the head of the regional office of the domestic intelligence agency in
Thuringia.

``They are mobilizing,'' Mr. Kramer said. ``The corona crisis feeds into
their narrative of a decline in Western liberalism. It feeds militancy
and potentially violence.''

The authorities are on high alert. Over the past year, far-right
terrorists have assassinated a regional politician on his front porch
near Kassel, attacked a synagogue in Halle, and in February, killed 10
people in Hanau. Even before the pandemic hit Germany, far-right
extremism and far-right terrorism had been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/12/world/europe/germany-afd.html}{officially
identified} as the biggest danger for the country's democracy.

``That has not changed,'' Mr. Kramer said. ``On the contrary. This plays
into their hands.''

Christopher F. Schuetze contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
