Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{How the Coronavirus Compares With 100 Years of Deadly
Events}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{how-the-coronavirus-compares-with-100-years-of-deadly-events}{%
\section{How the Coronavirus Compares With 100 Years of Deadly
Events}\label{how-the-coronavirus-compares-with-100-years-of-deadly-events}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jin-wu}{Jin Wu} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/josh-katz}{Josh Katz}June
10, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{247}
\end{itemize}

Only the worst disasters completely upend normal patterns of death,
overshadowing, if only briefly, everyday causes like cancer, heart
disease and car accidents. Here's how the devastation brought by the
pandemic in 25 cities and regions compares with historical events.

Deaths during coronavirus outbreak

Historical events

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/05/12/city-excess-deaths/adf9d7eacb80c977ad9eb183a0f49e276c3065f3/arrow_down.jpg}

7x normal mortality

6x normal mortality

5x normal mortality

4x normal mortality

3x normal mortality

2x normal mortality

Normal mortality

Normal mortality

A wave of homicides devastated Chicago in 2016. But it caused only a
small increase in overall mortality in the city.

A bad flu season in New York City raised all deaths to 1.05 times higher
than during a normal winter.

Neither event nears the extraordinary wave of death during the
coronavirus pandemic. We compared deaths in the worst months of the
outbreak to past years, a measure often used to assess a disaster's
severity.

Even in Oslo, which has avoided a major outbreak, about 15 percent more
people died than normal --- rivaling the worst month of the AIDS
epidemic in New York City.

The outbreak's death toll in Miami rivals that of one of America's worst
recent flu seasons in Seattle.

Hurricane Maria killed thousands of people in Puerto Rico in 2017. Many
died after widespread power outages overwhelmed hospitals. The increase
in death was similar to the outbreak's toll in Brazil's two largest
cities.

Demographers call these ``mortality shocks'' --- sudden spikes in the
total number of people dying not seen in the weeks before an event, and
not likely to last once it is over. They're often found during natural
disasters, severe flu seasons, famines or wars.

Nearly 3,000 people in New York City died in a single day on Sept. 11,
2001. It was one of the largest mortality shocks in recent American
history. Sixty percent more people died that September than normal.

On a relative scale, deaths increased more in Denver in March.

Death during the outbreak is often less visible than death from a
terrorist attack or a natural disaster. Many people have died quietly,
in nursing homes or at home. And some die without being tested and are
excluded from official death counts.

These estimates include all deaths, offering a more complete accounting
of the outbreak's toll than official tallies. They include people who
died directly from the coronavirus and those who died from other causes
as hospitals have been stretched and people avoid seeking medical care.

The 1957 flu pandemic, also known as the Asian flu, killed at least one
million people worldwide. In Santiago, Chile, one of the worst-hit
cities, mortality doubled. That increase was only a little higher than
the one during the coronavirus in Detroit.

2x normal mortality

Any disaster past this line ---~that is, one in which normal deaths
double ---~should be declared an emergency, according to guidelines from
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Sweden kept schools and businesses open as most of Europe closed them
and ordered citizens to stay home. The country has seen an extraordinary
increase in deaths, especially in Stockholm. More than twice the usual
number of people died there in April.

While national figures can broadly show the situation in each country,
they can also obscure acute crises in densely populated cities, like
Boston, where the virus spread rapidly before officials told people to
stay home.

``If you're looking at the total impact of the pandemic across an entire
country, it may not seem like much is going on,'' said Robert Anderson,
chief of the mortality statistics branch at the C.D.C.'s National Center
for Health Statistics. ``If you really want to know what's happening,
you need to look at states, cities and local areas.''

Major cities with large outbreaks, like Paris, have rates of excess
death far higher than the rest of their countries.

3x normal mortality

Few places have seen excess deaths of this scale --- more than three
times normal.

Now we see Boston's toll during the 1918 flu, also known as the Spanish
flu, the worst pandemic of the 20th century. It killed at least 50
million people worldwide, with about 675,000 deaths in the United
States.

As the toll has eased in New York and in European capitals, cities
across Latin America have begun to see astonishing increases in deaths.
Deaths spiked in Lima in April despite a strict lockdown. More than
11,000 people died in May, about 8,000 more people than in previous
years. That surpasses the worst month of the 1918 flu in New York City.

4x normal mortality

These figures reflect deaths only through May. In many cities in Latin
America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, the outbreak is still getting
worse.

``Oh my goodness,'' Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the United States' top
infectious disease expert, said on Tuesday. ``Where is it going to end?
We're still at the beginning of it.''

In Madrid, more than 14,000 people died between mid-March and mid-April.
The city usually sees around 3,000 deaths during this period.

5x normal mortality

Few places ever see excess deaths of this scale outside of famine or
war.

The death toll in Ecuador --- one of the worst in the world --- was far
higher than the official number of Covid-19 deaths reported by the
government. In Guayas, a coastal province that includes the city of
Guayaquil, deaths spiked by more than five times.

New York City, long the epicenter of the U.S. outbreak, has experienced
one of the most extreme increases in deaths. Mortality in April grew to
almost six times the usual number.

6x normal mortality

Bergamo, a province in northern Italy of just under one million people,
usually sees fewer than 1,000 deaths each month. But during the peak of
its outbreak in March, nearly 6,000 people died. It may be the
hardest-hit place in the world, so far.

A 9.0-magnitude earthquake set off a tsunami that sent waves crashing
through coastal cities in northern Japan. It killed more than 11,000
people in Miyagi Prefecture that month.

This is not an exhaustive list of disasters. Many wars, famines and
other events in the last century have caused even greater increases in
death.

7x normal mortality

The Spanish flu outbreak in Philadelphia was deadlier than the current
pandemic in any known city so far. In October 1918, almost 15,000 people
in the city died, an extraordinary number of deaths for that time.

The coronavirus is unlikely to kill as many people as the Spanish flu
did, but in the modern history of natural disasters, it will have few
rivals.

7.3x

7.25x

7.2x

7.15x

7.1x

7.05x

6.95x

6.9x

6.85x

6.8x

6.75x

6.7x

6.65x

6.6x

6.55x

6.5x

6.45x

6.4x

6.35x

6.3x

6.25x

6.2x

6.15x

6.1x

6.05x

5.95x

5.9x

5.85x

5.8x

5.75x

5.7x

5.65x

5.6x

5.55x

5.5x

5.45x

5.4x

5.35x

5.3x

5.25x

5.2x

5.15x

5.1x

5.05x

4.95x

4.9x

4.85x

4.8x

4.75x

4.7x

4.65x

4.6x

4.55x

4.5x

4.45x

4.4x

4.35x

4.3x

4.25x

4.2x

4.15x

4.1x

4.05x

3.95x

3.9x

3.85x

3.8x

3.75x

3.7x

3.65x

3.6x

3.55x

3.5x

3.45x

3.4x

3.35x

3.3x

3.25x

3.2x

3.15x

3.1x

3.05x

2.95x

2.9x

2.85x

2.8x

2.75x

2.7x

2.65x

2.6x

2.55x

2.5x

2.45x

2.4x

2.35x

2.3x

2.25x

2.2x

2.15x

2.1x

2.05x

1.95x

1.9x

1.85x

1.8x

1.75x

1.7x

1.65x

1.6x

1.55x

1.5x

1.45x

1.4x

1.35x

1.3x

1.25x

1.2x

1.15x

1.1x

1.05x

Deaths in Chicago were 1.01 timesnormal.\\
Aug. 2016

1.05x Flu season in New York City, Jan. 2011

1.15x HIV/AIDS crisis in New York City, Sept. 1995

Oslo 1.16x

Fortaleza, Brazil 1.19x

1.25x Flu season in Seattle, Jan. 2017

Miami 1.26x

1.29x Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, Sept. -- Oct. 2017

SÃ£o Paulo, Brazil 1.29x

1.31x Chicago heat wave, July 1995

St. Petersburg, Russia 1.34x

Rio de Janeiro 1.36x

Istanbul 1.45x

Recife, Brazil 1.47x

Chicago 1.52x

Jakarta, Indonesia 1.54x

Moscow 1.60x

1.61x September 11th in New York City, Sept. 2001

Denver 1.75x

Milan 1.93x

Detroit 1.94x

1.99x 1957 flu in Santiago, Chile, Aug. 1957

2.00x Paris heat wave, Aug. 2003

Stockholm 2.18x

Boston 2.27x

2.42x Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans, Aug. 2005

Manaus, Brazil 2.56x

Paris 2.61x

Catalonia, Spain 2.95x

London 3.02x

3.61x Spanish flu in Boston, Oct. 1918

3.97x Spanish flu in New York City, Oct. 1918

Lima, Peru 3.99x

Madrid 4.57x

Guayas, Ecuador 5.50x

New York City 5.83x

Bergamo, Italy 6.67x

6.85x Earthquake and tsunami in Miyagi, Japan, Mar. 2011

7.27x Spanish flu in Philadelphia, Oct. 1918

7x

7x

7x

7x

7 times normal mortality

5x

5x

5x

5x

5x

London

New York City

Madrid

Paris

3x

3x

3x

3x

3x

Stockholm

France

Sweden

United States

England

and Wales

Spain

Normal mortality

April

May

April

May

April

May

May, 2020

April

April

7x

7 times normal mortality

7x

5x

5x

5x

Madrid

New York City

Paris

3x

3x

3x

France

United States

Spain

Normal mortality

April

May

April

May

April

7x

7x

5x

5x

London

3x

3x

Stockholm

Sweden

England

and Wales

April

May

April

May

5 times normal mortality

Stockholm

3x

Sweden

Normal mortality

May

April, 2020

5x

Paris

3x

France

April

5x

London

3x

England

and Wales

April

May

5x

Madrid

3x

Spain

April

May

7x

5x

New York City

3x

United States

April

May

*The data in the U.S. accounts for 86 percent of the population.

Muktita Suhartono contributed reporting from Bangkok, Carlotta Gall from
Istanbul, Anatoly Kurmanaev from Caracas, Venezuela, Monika Pronczuk
from Brussels, JosÃ© MarÃ­a LeÃ³n Cabrera from Quito, Ecuador, Irit Pazner
from Jerusalem, John Bartlett from Santiago, Mirelis Morales from Lima
and Manuela Andreoni from Rio de Janeiro.

\textbf{About the data:} The all-cause mortality data obtained from each
city varies: Some cities publish daily death totals dating back decades,
and others only for the last few years. Places with less historical
data, such as Istanbul, make for rougher historical comparisons.
Historical baselines used to calculate excess deaths do not adjust for
any expected reduction in recent deaths from non-Covid-19 causes or for
two deadly flu epidemics in Europe during the winters of 2014-15 and
2017-18.

\textbf{Sources:}\\
Elizabeth Wrigley-Field, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities; Andrew
Noymer; University of California, Irvine; Leslie Roberts, Columbia
University Medical Center; Virginia Zarulli, University of Southern
Denmark.

Homicides in Chicago:
\emph{\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/data/ct-shooting-victims-map-charts-htmlstory.html}{Chicago
Tribune}}\\
Flu deaths in New York City and Seattle: \emph{Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention}\\
HIV/AIDS epidemic in New York City: \emph{HIV Epidemiology Program, New
York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene}\\
Mortality in Oslo:
\emph{\href{https://www.ssb.no/en/statbank/table/12973/}{Statistics
Norway}}\\
Mortality in Moscow: \emph{Moscow City Government}\\
Mortality in St. Petersburg: \emph{St. Petersburg City Government}\\
Mortality in Brazilian cities: \emph{Registro Civil and Brasil.io}\\
Mortality in Miami: \emph{Florida Department of Health}\\
Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico: \emph{Puerto Rico Vital Statistics
System; Alexis Santos, Demographer at Pennsylvania State University}\\
Chicago heat wave in 1995: *\emph{Whitman et al.,}
\href{https://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.87.9.1515}{``Mortality
in Chicago Attributed to the July 1995 Heat Wave''}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Mortality in Istanbul: \emph{Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality}\\
Mortality in Chicago: \emph{Illinois Department of Public Health}\\
Mortality in Jakarta, Indonesia: \emph{Jakarta Department of Parks and
Cemeteries}\\
September 11 in New York City: \emph{Centers for Disease Control and
Preventio}n\\
Mortality in Denver: \emph{Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment}\\
Mortality in Milan and Bergamo, Italy: \emph{Italian National Institute
of Statistics}\\
Mortality in Detroit: \emph{Michigan Department of Health and Human
Services}\\
1957 flu in Santiago, Chile: **Chowell et al.,
``\emph{\href{https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/irv.12439}{Severe
mortality impact of the 1957 influenza pandemic in Chile}},'';*
\href{https://iris.paho.org/bitstream/handle/10665.2/14983/v44n4p316.pdf?sequence=1\&isAllowed=y}{General
Directorate of the National Health Service of Chile}*\\
Paris heat wave in 2003: \emph{INSEE}\\
Mortality in Stockholm: \emph{Statistics} \emph{Sweden}\\
Mortality in Boston: \emph{Massachusetts Department of Public Health}\\
Hurricane Katrina: \emph{Centers for Disease Control and Prevention}\\
Mortality in Paris: \emph{INSEE}\\
Mortality in Madrid and Catalonia, Spain: \emph{Daily Mortality
Surveillance System}\\
Mortality in London: \emph{Office for National Statistics}\\
1918 flu in Boston, New York City, and Philadelphia:
\emph{\href{https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/vsushistorical/mortstatsh_1918.pdf}{U.S.
Department of Commerce}}\\
Mortality in Lima, Peru: \emph{Mortality Information System}\\
Mortality in Guayas, Ecuador: \emph{General Direction of Civil Registry;
National Institute of Statistics}\\
2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan:
\emph{\href{https://www.e-stat.go.jp/en/stat-search/files?page=1\&layout=datalist\&toukei=00450011\&tstat=000001028897\&cycle=7\&month=0\&tclass1=000001053058\&tclass2=000001053061\&tclass3=000001053065\&cycle_facet=tclass1\%3Atclass2\%3Atclass3\%3Acycle}{National
Statistics Center}}

Read 247 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
