<div id="app">

<div>

<div class="NYTAppHideMasthead css-1r6wvpq e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-ui9rw0 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site
index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

<div id="masthead-bar-one" class="section hasLinks css-15hmgas e1csuq9d3">

<div class="css-uqyvli e1csuq9d0">

</div>

<div class="css-1uqjmks e1csuq9d1">

</div>

<div class="css-9e9ivx">

[](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie&client_id=vi)

</div>

<div class="css-1bvtpon e1csuq9d2">

[Today’s
Paper](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div data-aria-hidden="false">

<div id="site-content" data-role="main">

<div class="css-v2kl5d">

<div class="css-l6qy68">

<div class="css-iuavtg">

### [Books](/section/books/)<span class="css-omywve">|</span>[Best Sellers](/books/best-sellers/)

</div>

<div class="section">

# About the Best Sellers<span class="css-1dv1kvn">- August 09, 2020</span>

</div>

# About the Best Sellers <span>- August 09, 2020</span>

This copy is for your personal, noncommercial use
only.

<div class="css-hq7mi0">

<div class="css-d8bdto" data-role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Best Sellers Lists Navigation

  - Select FictionFICTION──Combined Print & E-Book FictionHardcover
    FictionPaperback Trade Fiction
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>
  - Select NonfictionNONFICTION──Combined Print & E-Book
    NonfictionHardcover NonfictionPaperback NonfictionAdvice, How-To &
    Miscellaneous
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>
  - Select CHILDREN’SCHILDREN’S──Children’s Middle Grade
    HardcoverChildren’s Picture BooksChildren’s SeriesYoung Adult
    Hardcover
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>
  - Select MONTHLY LISTSMONTHLY LISTS──Audio FictionAudio
    NonfictionBusinessGraphic Books and MangaMass MarketMiddle Grade
    PaperbackYoung Adult Paperback
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>

<!-- end list -->

  - Select FictionFICTION──Combined Print & E-Book FictionHardcover
    FictionPaperback Trade Fiction
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>
  - Select NonfictionNONFICTION──Combined Print & E-Book
    NonfictionHardcover NonfictionPaperback NonfictionAdvice, How-To &
    Miscellaneous
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>
  - Select MOREMORE──Children’s Middle Grade HardcoverChildren’s Picture
    BooksChildren’s SeriesYoung Adult HardcoverAudio FictionAudio
    NonfictionBusinessGraphic Books and MangaMass MarketMiddle Grade
    PaperbackYoung Adult Paperback
    <div class="css-fx5y58">
    <div class="css-jzbyjo">
    </div>
    </div>

</div>

<div class="css-v2kl5d">

<div class="css-46u0bd">

<div class="css-distx1">

A version of this Best Sellers report appears in the August 9, 2020
issue of [The New York Times Book
Review](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review).
Rankings on weekly lists reflect sales for the week ending July 25,
2020.

Rankings reflect unit sales reported on a confidential basis by vendors
offering a wide range of general interest titles published in the United
States. Every week, thousands of diverse selling locations report their
actual sales on hundreds of thousands of individual titles. The panel of
reporting retailers is comprehensive and reflects sales in tens of
thousands of stores of all sizes and demographics across the United
States.

The book selling universe is comprised of well-established vendors as
well as emerging ones. The sales venues for print books include
national, regional and local chains representing tens of thousands of
storefronts; many hundreds of independent book retailers; scores of
online and multimedia entertainment retailers; supermarkets, university,
gift and big-box department stores; and newsstands.

E-book rankings reflect sales from leading online vendors of e-books in
a variety of popular e-reader formats and are included in our combined
fiction, combined nonfiction, advice, children's series and monthly
lists. Titles are included regardless of whether they are published in
both print and electronic formats or just one format. In general,
publisher credits for e-books are listed under the corporate publishing
name instead of by publisher's division or imprint, unless by special
request. Graphic book rankings include all print and digital formats.
Adult, children's, young adult, fiction and nonfiction graphic books are
eligible for inclusion on the graphic books and manga list. Audiobook
rankings are created from sales of physical and digital audio products.
Free-trial or low-cost audiobook sales are not eligible for inclusion.
Publisher credits for audiobooks are listed under the audiobook
publisher name.

The appearance of a ranked title reflects the fact that sales data from
reporting vendors has been provided to The Times and has satisfied
commonly accepted industry standards of universal identification (such
as ISBN13 and EISBN13 codes). All identities, anecdotal, contextual, and
other information about the retail sales of any title, as well as
overall sales data, are provided with the expectation and assurance of
confidentiality by every vendor and are protected by Non-Disclosure
Agreements.

Sales are defined as completed transactions by vendors and individual
end users during the period on or after the official publication date of
a title. Institutional, special interest, group or bulk purchases, if
and when they are included, are at the discretion of The New York Times
Best-Seller List Desk editors based on standards for inclusion that
encompass proprietary vetting and audit protocols, corroborative
reporting and other statistical determinations. When included, such bulk
purchases appear with a dagger (†).

Publishers and vendors of all ranked titles must conform in a timely
fashion to The New York Times Best-Seller Lists requirement to allow for
examination and independent corroboration of their reported sales for
that week. Sales are statistically weighted to represent and accurately
reflect all outlets proportionally nationwide. An asterisk (\*)
indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of
the book above.

Among the categories not actively tracked at this time are: perennial
sellers, required classroom reading, textbooks, reference and test
preparation guides, e-books available exclusively from a single vendor,
journals, workbooks, calorie counters, shopping guides, periodicals and
crossword puzzles.

The New York Times Best Sellers are compiled and archived by The
Best-Seller Lists Desk of The New York Times News Department, and are
separate from the Editorial, Culture, Advertising and Business sides of
The New York Times Company.

If you are a book retailer interested in reporting your store's weekly
sales to The New York Times Best-Seller Lists, [send a request
here](https://bestsellers.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newstoreapp).

Please direct other questions and feedback to <nytbsl@NYTimes.com>.

<div class="section css-180ykk8">

<div class="css-qoqbd9">

Related
    Coverage

</div>

<div class="css-q6kieu">

1.  [](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/books/review/the-system-robert-reich-break-em-up-zephyr-teachout.html)
    <div class="css-8atqhb">
    ### The New York Times Book Review
    ## Why the Working Class Votes Against Its Economic Interests
    Two new books, Robert B. Reich’s “The System” and Zephyr Teachout’s
    “Break ’Em Up,” examine the impact of economic inequality in
    America.
    </div>
    <div class="css-1c4gova">
    ![](https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/16/books/review/16Madrick-WEB/16Madrick-WEB-thumbStandard.jpg)
    </div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1817wkr">

<div class="css-4bm0w6">

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div class="css-1v9qjcu">

*Follow New York Times Books on*
[*Facebook*](https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytbooks/) *and*
[*Twitter (@nytimesbooks)*](https://twitter.com/nytimesbooks)*, sign up
for* [*our
newsletter*](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/books-review)
*or* [*our literary
calendar*](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/books/books-calendar.html)*.
And listen to us on the* [*Book Review
podcast*](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/book-review-podcast)*.*

</div>

<div class="css-1v9qjcu">

### Frequently asked questions

[What is the difference between Trade and Mass Market
Fiction?](/2008/03/16/books/review/PaperRow-t.html)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1wcrlzz">

<div class="css-nl1pro">

## Weekly Best Sellers Lists

<div class="css-pol7am">

### Fiction

  - [Combined Print & E-Book
    Fiction](/books/best-sellers/combined-print-and-e-book-fiction/)
  - [Hardcover Fiction](/books/best-sellers/hardcover-fiction/)
  - [Paperback Trade
    Fiction](/books/best-sellers/trade-fiction-paperback/)

</div>

<div class="css-pol7am">

### Nonfiction

  - [Combined Print & E-Book
    Nonfiction](/books/best-sellers/combined-print-and-e-book-nonfiction/)
  - [Hardcover Nonfiction](/books/best-sellers/hardcover-nonfiction/)
  - [Paperback Nonfiction](/books/best-sellers/paperback-nonfiction/)
  - [Advice, How-To &
    Miscellaneous](/books/best-sellers/advice-how-to-and-miscellaneous/)

</div>

<div class="css-pol7am">

### CHILDREN’S

  - [Children’s Middle Grade
    Hardcover](/books/best-sellers/childrens-middle-grade-hardcover/)
  - [Children’s Picture Books](/books/best-sellers/picture-books/)
  - [Children’s Series](/books/best-sellers/series-books/)
  - [Young Adult Hardcover](/books/best-sellers/young-adult-hardcover/)

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-nl1pro">

## Monthly Best Sellers Lists

<div class="css-30wn1p">

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Audio Fiction](/books/best-sellers/audio-fiction/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Audio Nonfiction](/books/best-sellers/audio-nonfiction/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Business](/books/best-sellers/business-books/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Graphic Books and Manga](/books/best-sellers/graphic-books-and-manga/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Mass Market](/books/best-sellers/mass-market-monthly/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Middle Grade
Paperback](/books/best-sellers/middle-grade-paperback-monthly/)

</div>

<div class="css-108lmbq">

[Young Adult
Paperback](/books/best-sellers/young-adult-paperback-monthly/)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1ej6u1y">

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-16far3i eaca97t0" type="bottom">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-1tag3rd eaca97t1">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main
story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site
    Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>
