Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Trump Falsely Claims Much of U.S.
Is `Corona-Free'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ga5ggg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60670650-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60672d60-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60672d61-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60672d62-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60672d63-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=60672d64-f2ad-11ea-a4e6-eb9fa3a53629\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-falsely-claims-much-of-us-is-corona-free}{%
\section{Trump Falsely Claims Much of U.S. Is
`Corona-Free'}\label{trump-falsely-claims-much-of-us-is-corona-free}}

A national teachers' union said teachers might strike as a ``last
resort'' if they didn't feel safe. Pilgrims to Mecca are finding a
reconfigured hajj.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 28, 2020Updated Aug. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Read our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-cases.html}{live
Coronavirus Pandemic} coverage here.

\hypertarget{developments-on-tuesday}{%
\subsubsection{Developments on Tuesday}\label{developments-on-tuesday}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-46e7265a}{Trump defends sharing a dubious
  video and falsely says much of the U.S. is `corona-free.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1e0e9a70}{As Trump called on states to reopen,
  a federal report urged 21 `red zone' states to impose more
  restrictions.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-838c964}{Democrats push to extend a \$600
  weekly jobless benefit that Republicans want to reduce.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-541bdc40}{A national teachers' union says its
  members can strike to ensure schools reopen safely.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2197dc2d}{Baseball's new schedule is upended
  by more cases among the Marlins.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7674b55b}{Pilots want FedEx to suspend Hong
  Kong operations, citing `difficult' quarantine requirements.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-798ed6c2}{The virus spreads to cities
  throughout Vietnam, where the pandemic had been under control.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/us/politics/28virus-briefing-trump/28virus-briefing-trump-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{trump-defends-sharing-a-dubious-video-and-falsely-says-much-of-the-us-is-corona-free}{%
\subsection{Trump defends sharing a dubious video and falsely says much
of the U.S. is
`corona-free.'}\label{trump-defends-sharing-a-dubious-video-and-falsely-says-much-of-the-us-is-corona-free}}

President Trump returned to defending a discredited drug at a White
House briefing Tuesday evening in which he also made claims about the
trajectory of the virus that clash with his own administration's
assessments and bemoaned his low approval ratings.

The president defended sharing a version of a video promoting the use of
the drug hydroxychloroquine that
was\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/technology/virus-video-trump.html}{deleted
Monday night}by Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, which all said that the
video had violated their policies on sharing misinformation about the
virus.

He claimed that ``you can look at large portions of our country --- it's
corona-free,'' even as federal officials distributed a new report
finding that 21 states had outbreaks so severe that they were in the
``red zone.'' Twenty-eight states were in the ``yellow zone,'' and only
one state, Vermont, was in the ``green zone.''

And he lamented that health officials in his administration, including
Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, were more popular than he is. ``He's got this high
approval rating,'' Mr. Trump said. ``Why don't I have a high approval
rating --- and the administration --- with respect to the virus?''

``They're highly thought of, but nobody likes me,'' he said. ``It can
only be my personality.''

Mr. Trump continued to promote the use of hydroxychloroquine, which
several major studies have concluded is not effective in treating the
virus. ``I happen to think it works in the early stages,'' he said, and
claimed that ``from a safety standpoint it's safe.''

Federal health officials have warned of dangers.

In June the Food and Drug Administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/15/health/fda-hydroxychloroquine-malaria.html}{revoked
an emergency use authorization} for the use of hydroxychloroquine and
another malaria drug, chloroquine, in the treatment of Covid-19. In a
July 1 update, the F.D.A. said there were reports of serious heart
rhythm problems and other safety issues, including blood and lymph
system disorders, kidney injuries and liver problems and failure.

In revoking the emergency use authorization, the F.D.A. said, ``We made
this determination based on recent results from a large, randomized
clinical trial in hospitalized patients that found these medicines
showed no benefit for decreasing the likelihood of death or speeding
recovery.''

Asked on
``\href{https://www.goodmorningamerica.com/news/story/faucis-concerned-midwest-reopening-afford-surge-72026199}{Good
Morning America''} about the president's sharing of claims about
hydroxychloroquine, Dr. Fauci said that the ``prevailing clinical trials
that have looked at the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine have indicated
that it is not effective in coronavirus disease.''

At the briefing, Mr. Trump was asked about one of the speakers in the
video, who identified herself as Dr. Stella Immanuel. She claimed ``you
don't need masks'' to prevent the spread of the virus and spoke of
treating hundreds of virus patients with hydroxychloroquine. He called
her ``impressive.''

``She was on air along with many other doctors,'' he said. ``They were
big fans of hydroxychloroquine. And I thought she was very impressive in
the sense that from where she came --- I don't know which country she
comes from --- but she says she's had tremendous success with hundreds
of different patients. And I thought her voice was an important voice,
but I know nothing about her.''

Dr. Immanuel has drawn scrutiny for a series of religious sermons posted
on her YouTube channel, in which she linked medical conditions to sex
with demons and witches, as well as making references to alien DNA.

When a reporter mentioned Dr. Immanuel's background to the president,
including comments attributed to her that ``doctors make medicine using
DNA from aliens,'' Mr. Trump responded, ``I know nothing about her,''
and abruptly ended the briefing moments later.

Key Data of the DAY

\hypertarget{as-trump-called-on-states-to-reopen-a-federal-report-urged-21-red-zone-states-to-impose-more-restrictions}{%
\subsection{As Trump called on states to reopen, a federal report urged
21 `red zone' states to impose more
restrictions.}\label{as-trump-called-on-states-to-reopen-a-federal-report-urged-21-red-zone-states-to-impose-more-restrictions}}

Image

A Miami Beach code compliance officer talking with a group of people
about wearing masks.Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York Times

A new federal report found that the number of states with outbreaks
serious enough to place them in the ``red zone'' had grown to 21, and
urged officials in them to impose more restrictions.

The 21 states now in the ``red zone'' --- Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah and Wisconsin --- were designated
as such because they had more than 100 new cases per 100,000 people in
the past week. Three more states were added to the most serious category
since a similar report dated
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/report-on-the-coronavirus-with-recommendations-for-states/3635f4849cdf3599/full.pdf}{July
14:} Missouri, North Dakota and Wisconsin.

The findings in the new report, which contained profiles of each state,
were sent to state officials by the White House's coronavirus task force
and obtained by The New York Times.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/28/us/states-report-virus-response-july-26.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/doc-73375-states-report-virus-response-july-26-promo/doc-73375-states-report-virus-response-july-26-promo-articleLarge.png}

\hypertarget{read-the-latest-federal-report-on-states-response-to-the-virus}{%
\subsection{Read the Latest Federal Report on States' Response to the
Virus}\label{read-the-latest-federal-report-on-states-response-to-the-virus}}

The federal government prepares regular reports on the response to the
coronavirus. The following report, dated July 26, was distributed to
states by the Trump administration's coronavirus task force.

The report, which was dated July 26, recommended that more restrictions
be put in place in ``red zone'' states. But on Monday, a day later,
President Trump called for more states to reopen.

``A lot of the governors should be opening up states that they're not
opening, and we'll see what happens with them,'' Mr. Trump said during a
visit to North Carolina --- one of the states in the red zone.

The report recommended that North Carolina ``close establishments where
social distancing and mask use cannot occur, such as bars'' and ``limit
indoor dining to less than 25\% of normal capacity.'' It made similar
recommendations for other hard-hit states, calling for reducing the
occupancy of other businesses, closing gyms, and urging people to scale
back their public interactions and activities to a quarter of what they
normally are.

Mask mandates were consistently recommended for states and cities where
the virus is spreading. Noting that Arizona, included in the red zone,
had seen cases level off in recent days, the report credited its
``aggressive mitigation efforts of mask wearing, social distancing and
closing bars.''

But some governors continue to be resistant. When Dr. Deborah L. Birx,
the Trump administration's coronavirus response coordinator, visited
Tennessee on Monday, she spoke with Gov. Bill Lee, a Republican, about
mask mandates, but he was loath to issue a statewide order. ``We talked
about statewide mandates; we also talked about alternative approaches,''
he said afterward.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T15:00:31.766Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-5b0bf0d1}{As
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet vaccines, one company pauses its
  trials for a safety review.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6e2052bd}{The
  director of the N.I.H. and the surgeon general answer senators'
  questions.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780eaa2f}{Britain
  is expected to ban gatherings of more than six people.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The report put it more bluntly: ``Statewide mask mandate is critical to
stop the spread.''

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation's leading infectious disease expert,
said in an interview Tuesday on
``\href{https://www.goodmorningamerica.com/news/story/faucis-concerned-midwest-reopening-afford-surge-72026199}{Good
Morning America}'' that he was concerned about rising positivity rates
in several states, and that officials should heed federal guidelines
when deciding whether to open up. ``I think we can prevent the surges
that we've seen in the Southern states, because we just can't afford,
yet again, another surge,'' he said.

Currently, Vermont is the only state in the ``green zone'' category for
cases, with less than 10 cases a week per 100,000 people. The remaining
28 states and the District of Columbia were placed in the ``yellow
zone.'' The report considers some hard-hit local areas in those states
to be in the ``red zone'' as well.

\hypertarget{democrats-push-to-extend-a-600-weekly-jobless-benefit-that-republicans-want-to-reduce}{%
\subsection{Democrats push to extend a \$600 weekly jobless benefit that
Republicans want to
reduce.}\label{democrats-push-to-extend-a-600-weekly-jobless-benefit-that-republicans-want-to-reduce}}

Top Democrats indicated they would be unwilling to accept anything less
than an extension of the current \$600 weekly unemployment insurance
benefits, Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, told reporters
after a private meeting on Tuesday, a demand that is all but certain to
be rejected by the majority of Senate Republicans.

Democrats also said they viewed another infusion of relief for state and
local governments as a significant priority, Mr. Meadows said.

In the meeting on Capitol Hill, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and
Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, ``indicated they
weren't willing to negotiate down on the unemployment benefit,'' Mr.
Meadows said.

That demand is all but certain to be rejected by the majority of Senate
Republicans, many of whom do not want to approve any additional aid
beyond what is already provided through traditional unemployment
benefits.

The Republican \$1 trillion proposal would not extend the benefit and
would instead maintain a flat \$200 extra per week above regular
unemployment benefits. That amount would ultimately be replaced with a
new system of calculating federal aid that would cap benefits at about
70 percent of a worker's prior income.

Additional funding for state and local governments was also raised, but
the top Democrats did not explicitly say that the nearly \$1 trillion
allocated in the Democratic opening offer was a red line, Mr. Meadows
said.

``Just the beginning of the talks,'' Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury
secretary, said as he left the office Senator Mitch McConnell of
Kentucky, the Republican leader, late Tuesday afternoon.

Both enhanced unemployment insurance benefits and state and local
funding form some of the largest policy gulfs between Republicans and
Democrats, who are beginning an intense round of negotiations over
another coronavirus relief package to shore up the economy.

While Democrats have been publicly united behind the \$3 trillion
stimulus proposal the House approved in May, Republicans are in near
open revolt over their own \$1 trillion proposal, which top lawmakers
unveiled on Monday.

While ``united in disagreement,'' as Senator John Kennedy, Republican of
Louisiana, put it, several Republicans have said they would not support
a full extension of the unemployment insurance benefit, arguing that it
discourages workers from returning to their jobs.

Republicans are also at odds with the White House over President Trump's
insistence that the next bill include \$1.75 billion for the
construction of a new F.B.I. headquarters in downtown Washington.

Mr. McConnell, under fire for embracing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/18/us/politics/fbi-headquarters-building-trump.html}{an
obsession of Mr. Trump's}, said he favored
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/republicans-trump-fbi-building-virus-relief-bill.html}{dropping
the F.B.I. provision} from his party's emergency pandemic aid proposal,
along with other provisions unrelated to the virus.

He did not say whether that applied to more than \$1 billion for
military projects included in the plan for projects that Mr. Trump
defunded earlier this year to pay for a wall on the southern border, his
signature 2016 campaign promise.

Both proposals drew outrage from Democrats, who said the president and
his Republican allies were using the economic stabilization package ---
meant to help struggling Americans weather a pandemic and a recession
--- to further Mr. Trump's personal and political agenda.

\hypertarget{a-national-teachers-union-says-its-members-can-strike-to-ensure-schools-reopen-safely}{%
\subsection{A national teachers' union says its members can strike to
ensure schools reopen
safely.}\label{a-national-teachers-union-says-its-members-can-strike-to-ensure-schools-reopen-safely}}

Image

A demonstration earlier this month against reopening schools in
Florida.Credit...Octavio Jones/Getty Images

The second-largest teachers' union in the United States announced on
Tuesday that it would support its 1.7 million members if they chose to
strike in districts and states that moved to reopen classrooms without
adequate health and safety measures.

The union, the American Federation of Teachers, said strikes should be a
``last resort.'' But the resolution approved by the organization's
executive council gives educators and their union representatives
additional muscle in negotiations over what would constitute adequate
protection for teachers and school employees.

The union is pushing for schools to wait to reopen classrooms until
coronavirus transmission rates in a community fall below 1 percent and
average daily test positivity rates stay below 5 percent --- something
that very few places have achieved. A
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/14/us/coronavirus-schools-fall.html}{recent
New York Times analysis} found that only two of the nation's 10 largest
school districts could reopen under the latter threshold.

The union also wants effective contact tracing in place in regions that
reopen schools, mask requirements for students and teachers, updated
ventilation systems in school buildings and procedures to maintain six
feet of distance between individuals.

Randi Weingarten, the union's president, said that if the federal
government could support the cruise industry and hedge funds during the
crisis, ``they sure as hell can help working families, and can help
educators ensure our kids get the education they need.''

Education leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/schools-reopening-trump.html}{have
said they need} hundreds of billions of dollars for measures that would
allow schools to reopen safely.

On Monday, Senate Republicans
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/politics/republicans-jobless-aid.html}{introduced
a stimulus package} that fell far short of what Democrats and organized
labor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/schools-reopening-trump.html}{have
proposed}. The measure would provide \$70 billion for K-12 education but
condition two-thirds of that money on schools' reopening at least
partially in person, a priority for Mr. Trump, who sees it as critical
to reviving the nation's economy by allowing parents to work.

The A.F.T.'s authorization vote leaves it up to local chapters to make
the decision on whether to plan a strike. The Florida Education
Association has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/07/20/us/20reuters-health-coronvirus-usa-florida.html}{already
sued} Gov. Ron DeSantis and other officials to prevent school buildings
from reopening in that state, where virus cases are surging. On Tuesday,
Florida again broke its daily record for deaths, reporting 186
fatalities. It also reported 9,230 new cases.

\hypertarget{baseballs-new-schedule-is-upended-by-more-cases-among-the-marlins}{%
\subsection{Baseball's new schedule is upended by more cases among the
Marlins.}\label{baseballs-new-schedule-is-upended-by-more-cases-among-the-marlins}}

Image

The Miami Marlins celebrated their opening day win against the
Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park last week in
Philadelphia.Credit...Mitchell Leff/Getty Images

Less than a week into its long-delayed season, Major League Baseball's
schedule fell into turmoil Tuesday as the number of positive tests
within the Miami Marlins continued to grow.

The Marlins now have 17 cases within their traveling party --- 15
involving players --- and will not play again until Monday at the
earliest. The Philadelphia Phillies, who hosted the Marlins for three
games last weekend, will not play again until Friday.

The Marlins were scheduled to play four games against the Baltimore
Orioles this week, and the Phillies were slated to play four against the
Yankees. Instead, the Yankees will play the Orioles in Baltimore on
Wednesday and Thursday. The Washington Nationals, who were scheduled to
play in Miami this weekend, will now be off.

The Marlins played the Phillies on Sunday after learning that four
players had tested positive. Nine more members of their traveling party
were found to have tested positive on Monday, and four more cases were
confirmed on Tuesday. The Phillies have not registered any new
positives, but were undergoing more tests on Tuesday.

The league still hopes to have all teams play 60 games this season. The
Phillies and the Marlins could conceivably reach that number by playing
doubleheaders or playing on mutual off days.

\hypertarget{pilots-want-fedex-to-suspend-hong-kong-operations-citing-difficult-quarantine-requirements}{%
\subsection{Pilots want FedEx to suspend Hong Kong operations, citing
`difficult' quarantine
requirements.}\label{pilots-want-fedex-to-suspend-hong-kong-operations-citing-difficult-quarantine-requirements}}

Image

A FedEx pilot tested positive in Hong Kong on July 11, after visiting a
popular restaurant.Credit...Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

A union representing FedEx pilots called on the delivery company Tuesday
to suspend operations in Hong Kong after its members were subjected to
quarantine facilities under ``extremely difficult conditions.''

Hong Kong began testing all airline workers who were previously exempt
from mandatory coronavirus tests this month, prompting United Airlines
and American Airlines to suspend flights to the city. A FedEx pilot who
had arrived from the United States and visited a popular restaurant
tested positive on July 11.

The Air Line Pilots Association International said on Tuesday that three
FedEx pilots who had tested positive for the coronavirus but were
asymptomatic were ``forced into mandated hospital facilities'' in Hong
Kong. Those who tested negative but had been in close contact with an
infected person ``were put into government camps under extremely
difficult conditions.''

``Pilots who test positive for Covid-19 face compulsory admission and
treatment in government-selected public hospitals, with as many as five
patients to a room with one shared bathroom,'' the union
\href{https://www.alpa.org/news-and-events/news-room/2020-07-28-fedex-pilots-face-unacceptable-conditions-in-hong-kong}{said
in a statement}.

``Not only do these situations pose unacceptable risks to our pilots'
safety and well-being, but they also create added stress and distraction
for flight operations,'' it added.

Hong Kong has had the same quarantining and hospitalization requirements
for its own residents who test positive or were in close contact with a
confirmed case.

The semiautonomous Chinese territory is fighting its biggest surge in
coronavirus infections yet, with more than 100 new cases reported in
each of the past seven days. Health officials believe that people who
had been exempt from mandatory quarantine rules --- including airline
workers, seafarers and business executives --- were behind the spike in
cases.

Hong Kong previously allowed such exemptions to help boost the economy,
but it planned to tighten testing and quarantine arrangements for air
and sea crew members starting on Wednesday.

Reports about Hong Kong's quarantine facilities have varied. Some camps
have been compared to a
\href{https://edition.cnn.com/2020/04/09/homepage2/hong-kong-coronavirus-quarantine-diary-intl-hnk/index.html}{``cozy
university dorm''} with brand-new Ikea furniture, but others have
complained about
\href{https://hongkongfp.com/2020/04/18/coronavirus-hong-kong-quarantine-arrivals-complain-of-disorderly-unsanitary-govt-facilities/}{unsanitary
and moldy environments}.

Separately, a 76-year-old woman who was initially hospitalized due to
shortness of breath from heart failure died on Wednesday, a hospital
spokesman said, bringing the death toll from the virus in Hong Kong to
24. She had been admitted to a hospital cubicle that had confirmed
Covid-19 cases, and she was later identified as a close contact and
subsequently tested positive.

\hypertarget{the-virus-spreads-to-cities-throughout-vietnam-where-the-pandemic-had-been-under-control}{%
\subsection{The virus spreads to cities throughout Vietnam, where the
pandemic had been under
control.}\label{the-virus-spreads-to-cities-throughout-vietnam-where-the-pandemic-had-been-under-control}}

Image

Taking a sample from a restaurant worker in Hanoi, Vietnam, on
Wednesday. Another employee there had tested positive for the virus
after traveling from Danang.Credit...Kham/Reuters

After a weekend outbreak ended a 100-day streak with no reported local
transmissions of the coronavirus in Vietnam, officials said on Wednesday
that the virus had popped up across the country, with cases discovered
in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City and two provinces in central Vietnam.

Over the past few days, the Vietnamese health authorities have also
confirmed clusters of cases at hospitals in Danang, a central city that
is a tourism and trade center. At least 30 cases have been detected
there,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/07/29/world/asia/29reuters-health-coronavirus-vietnam.html}{according
to Reuters}, and the government shut down flights in and out of the city
on Tuesday.

Vietnam was lauded for its early and decisive approach to the pandemic,
which emerged in China, its northern neighbor. International flights
were suspended and schools were closed. Residents wore face masks. A
one-party state well equipped to track the local populace focused on
comprehensive contact tracing. With fewer than 450 cases of the virus
confirmed, Vietnam has not reported a single death from Covid-19.

After a 57-year-old man in Danang was confirmed to have tested positive
for the virus over the weekend, despite having no history of travel
outside the city, the Vietnamese government locked down quickly and
unveiled plans to evacuate up to 80,000 domestic tourists, who had
traveled to Danang as a sense of normalcy returned to the country.

``I am quite worried because the source of this outbreak has not been
found,'' said Nguyen Thi Minh Hoa, a director of a marketing firm in
Danang. ``The country must act quickly and decisively.''

\hypertarget{a-front-line-doctor-in-baltimore-died-of-the-enemy-he-was-battling-against}{%
\subsection{A front-line doctor in Baltimore died of the enemy he was
battling
against.}\label{a-front-line-doctor-in-baltimore-died-of-the-enemy-he-was-battling-against}}

A Baltimore physician who spent 15 years as chief of the critical care
unit at a Baltimore hospital died there of the coronavirus about a month
after becoming a patient.

About 20 of Dr. Joseph Costa's co-workers at Mercy Medical Center
surrounded him in his final moments on Saturday while his husband held
him,
\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/coronavirus/bs-md-ob-cv-costa-icu-doctor-mercy-coronavirus-20200727-qbb4ebvnizdvtpkk4octd27tda-story.html}{The
Baltimore Sun reported}. Dr. Costa, 56, had worked at Mercy for 23
years.

Image

Dr. Joseph CostaCredit...Mercy Medical Center

``He showed compassion with his colleagues, no matter the role, the same
way he showed compassion to his patients: with grace and dignity,'' said
Leah Forest, a quality analyst who worked with Dr. Costa. ``He was so
humble he didn't want his picture on the wall.''

Hospital executives said in a statement that Dr. Costa had ``selflessly
continued his work on the front lines'' as the virus swept into
Baltimore and that he had been ``deeply committed to serving our
patients and our city during this time of great need.''

His husband, David Hart,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/head-of-baltimore-hospitals-icu-dies-of-coronavirus/2020/07/27/3831bfb8-d052-11ea-8d32-1ebf4e9d8e0d_story.html}{told
The Washington Post} that when the pandemic hit, he begged Dr. Costa,
who had a rare autoimmune disorder, not to go to work, but that Dr.
Costa insisted on working alongside his staff.

At least 820 health care workers in the United States have died of the
coronavirus, according to a tally compiled by Kaiser Health News and The
Guardian.

Global ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{hajj-during-the-pandemic-sterilized-pebbles-bottled-holy-water-and-no-kissing-the-sacred-stone}{%
\subsection{Hajj during the pandemic: Sterilized pebbles, bottled holy
water and no kissing the sacred
stone.}\label{hajj-during-the-pandemic-sterilized-pebbles-bottled-holy-water-and-no-kissing-the-sacred-stone}}

Image

Workers cleaned as pilgrims prayed in front of the Kaaba at the Grand
Mosque in Mecca on Monday.Credit...Saudi Ministry Of Media, via Reuters

In any other year, Muslims undertaking the hajj, the annual pilgrimage
to the holy city of Mecca that observant Muslims are obligated to
perform at least once, would drink from a holy well. They would kiss the
Kaaba's sacred black stone as they thronged the Grand Mosque. Before
they left Mecca, they would collect pebbles to ritually stone the devil.

During the virus edition of the hajj that begins on Wednesday, the black
stone is off limits. Authorities in Saudi Arabia are issuing bottled
water from the Zamzam well instead of letting pilgrims drink from cups
at the source. Also in the pilgrim packages: sterilized pebbles to hurl
at the devil, personal prayer rugs and other items intended to prevent
an outbreak from marring the hajj.

But the chief public health measure the Saudi government has taken is to
limit attendance, shrinking one of the world's most famous crowds to a
select few. About 2.5 million Muslims from around the world performed
the hajj last year; this year, Saudi Arabia said it would allow just
1,000 pilgrims, all of them from within the kingdom, though it has not
released the final number.

Across the Middle East, celebrations for Eid al-Adha, the festival of
sacrifice that marks the end of the hajj this weekend, will likewise be
paler this year.

In Oman and Bahrain, where the unchecked spread of the virus among
low-paid foreign laborers living in crowded conditions has contributed
to two of the world's worst outbreaks, officials have urged residents to
forgo the large celebrations that usually mark Eid, and Oman has
reinstituted a domestic travel ban and curfew. In Egypt, new cases have
fallen as the country resumes normal life, but a live broadcast will
replace communal Eid prayers.

In the United Arab Emirates, where it is common for residents to buy
sheep or other livestock to sacrifice and donate during Eid, the
authorities were encouraging people to use apps to reduce crowding at
slaughterhouses and markets.

Countries across the region are reopening despite
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{lingering
hot spots}. While Persian Gulf countries including Oman and Bahrain
continue to struggle with large outbreaks, smaller ones in Yemen and
Syria --- where years of war have decimated health care systems and
mired the population in deepening poverty --- are rapidly metastasizing.

Here are other developments from around the globe:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Spain}'s prime minister said that Britain
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/world/europe/spain-britain-quarantine-order.html}{had
  made ``an error'' by imposing a quarantine} on everyone arriving from
  his country, a decision that
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/world/europe/Spain-quarantine-UK-travel.html}{blindsided
  British vacationers} and dealt another blow to Spain's tourism
  industry. Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, in an interview with the news
  outlet Telecinco on Monday, said that Britain should have taken into
  account the regional divergences in Spain's coronavirus cases and not
  issued a blanket order.
\item
  Data released by the \textbf{United Nations World Tourism
  Organization} on Tuesday showed that leisure travel
  \href{https://www.unwto.org/news/impact-of-covid-19-on-global-tourism-made-clear-as-unwto-counts-the-cost-of-standstill}{fell
  by 98 percent} during the first five months of the year, compared with
  2019. The group said that, globally, 300 million fewer people
  traveled, representing a loss of \$320 billion for the tourism
  industry.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Joran van der Sloot of \textbf{the Netherlands}, who is in prison in
  Peru for killing Stephany Flores, 21, and who is the prime suspect in
  the 2005 disappearance of
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/01/12/world/americas/peru-suspect-in-holloway-case-pleads-guilty-in-lima-murder.html}{Natalee
  Holloway}, has Covid-19,
  \href{https://www.rtlnieuws.nl/nieuws/buitenland/artikel/5173750/joran-van-der-sloot-met-corona-peruaanse-gevangenis}{Dutch
  news outlets report}. The prison has four inmates and seven workers
  with confirmed infections,
  \href{https://www.defensoria.gob.pe/defensoria-del-pueblo-se-debe-garantizar-salud-de-internos-y-trabajadores-de-penal-de-juliaca/\#}{according
  to a Peruvian rights group}.
\item
  \textbf{China} recorded 68 new virus infections on Monday, its
  National Health Commission said on Tuesday, including six in Liaoning
  Province and 57 in the northwestern region of Xinjiang, where a
  flare-up since mid-July has shown little sign of abating. As China
  battles the surge, the authorities in the northeastern port city of
  Dalian, in Liaoning, have said they will test all 6 million residents
  after an outbreak. Samples have been collected from about 1.68 million
  Dalian residents as of Sunday night, the official Xinhua news agency
  reported.
\item
  \textbf{Kenya's} president, Uhuru Kenyatta, closed all bars and banned
  the sale of alcoholic drinks in restaurants for 30 days to try to curb
  the spread of the virus. In
  \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JVUfyoR7In0}{a speech} Monday,
  Mr. Kenyatta said recent reopening measures had given ``some Kenyans
  false comfort that this is not a serious health risk to them and their
  families.''
\item
  The
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/movies/venice-film-festival-2020-coronavirus.html}{Venice
  Film Festival}} announced the lineup on Tuesday for its 77th edition,
  setting out precautions including temperature checks and new outdoor
  screening sites for one of the first large international festivals
  held since the pandemic began. It will run from Sept. 2 to Sept. 12,
  with a reduced schedule; 55 to 60 films will be screened, compared
  with last year's 80.
\item
  Aleksandr Lukashenko, the president of \textbf{Belarus}, who is facing
  an election next month and has been criticized for allowing the
  coronavirus to spread in his country while he denied and downplayed
  the danger, said Tuesday at a gathering of security services officers
  that he had contracted the virus but showed no symptoms.
\item
  \textbf{Dubai's flagship airline, Emirates,}
  \href{https://www.emirates.com/media-centre/emirates-covers-customers-from-covid-19-expenses-in-industry-leading-initiative-to-boost-travel-confidence/}{says}
  it will provide all passengers with free insurance covering medical
  expenses up to 150,000 euros (about \$175,000), and €100 daily for a
  14-day quarantine period, should a passenger be found to have the
  virus within 31 days of traveling on one of its flights. Should a
  passenger die from Covid-19, the airline will provide €1,500 toward
  funeral costs. To qualify, customers must book a ticket before the end
  of October.
\end{itemize}

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{a-surge-in-us-prisons-is-hitting-inmates-and-officers-alike-}{%
\subsection{A surge in U.S. prisons is hitting inmates and officers
alike.
}\label{a-surge-in-us-prisons-is-hitting-inmates-and-officers-alike-}}

Image

The main gate of San Quentin this month.Credit...Eric Risberg/Associated
Press

Across the United States, the number of known infections among state
prison inmates and correctional officers has surged by 45 percent since
July 1, to more than 80,000, despite limited testing in correctional
institutions, according to a New York Times database. Prison deaths
related to the coronavirus have risen by nearly 25 percent in that time.

The 13
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html\#clusters}{largest
known clusters of the virus} in the United States, and 87 of the top
100, can be found inside correctional institutions, according to a New
York Times database.

*``*They have been checking our temps every day, and the staff are now
wearing the white hazmat suits, gloves and masks,'' Kayle Smith, an
inmate at Wakulla Correctional Institution in Florida, wrote in an email
Monday. The number of infected inmates at Wakulla has shot up to 263,
from just 15 two weeks ago.

It is not just inmates and guards who have been affected.

The director of the Ohio state prison system, Annette Chambers-Smith,
has tested positive for the virus, the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction announced Monday. Ms. Chambers-Smith has been confronted by
one of the nation's earliest and deadliest prison outbreaks, which has
taken the lives of at least 80 inmates.

Public health officials believe the virus is introduced into prisons by
correctional officers and other prison employees, and sometimes through
inmate transfers from other facilities. Prison outbreaks often
correspond with increases in infection in the surrounding communities,
according to data collected by The Times.

A recent surge of infections at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/san-quentin-prison-coronavirus.html}{San
Quentin State Prison} in California, for instance, has occurred along
with a sharp rise in surrounding Marin County, where daily infection
counts have soared more than 800 percent since June. Nearly
three-quarters of the prison's 3,300 inmates have now tested positive; a
month ago, the prison had no known infections.

Many of the recent outbreaks have occurred not in major state prisons
but in jails in midsize cities, suburbs and rural towns. The Benton
County Jail in Arkansas has gone from one case to 229 in recent weeks;
the Comanche County Jail in Oklahoma from zero to 179; and the jails in
Fresno, Calif., from a handful of cases to more than 640. Elsewhere in
the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  The mayor of \textbf{Honolulu} asked Hawaii's governor on Tuesday to
  \href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/MayorKirk/videos/352413472441811/}{shut
  down bars on the island of Oahu for three weeks} so that health
  officials and liquor control officers could develop a stronger
  enforcement plans to slow the spread of the virus. Kirk Caldwell, the
  city and county mayor, said he was concerned about bars becoming
  sources of the virus' spread after a number of patrons and employees
  were infected.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  With virus cases rising steeply in
  \href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.virginia.org\%2FRegions\%2FHamptonRoads}{southeastern}\textbf{\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.virginia.org\%2FRegions\%2FHamptonRoads}{Virginia}},
  Gov. Ralph Northam announced a rollback of the reopening there. The
  region includes Virginia Beach, the naval bases around Norfolk and
  Hampton Roads, and tourist attractions like Colonial Williamsburg and
  Busch Gardens. The governor's order, effective at midnight Thursday,
  prohibits the sale and consumption of alcohol after 10 p.m., and
  requires restaurants to close by midnight. It also limits indoor
  dining to 50 percent of capacity and social gatherings to 50 people,
  down from 250.
\item
  In \textbf{Montana}, officials announced four deaths on Tuesday. The
  sparsely populated state, where daily case reports have risen recently
  to an average of about 100, had not previously reported more than
  three deaths from the virus in a single day. Officials in
  \textbf{Arkansas} announced 20 new deaths on Tuesday and
  \textbf{Oregon} announced more than 15 new deaths, both single-day
  records for those states.
\item
  Child care providers in \textbf{Ohio} will be allowed to return to
  full capacity starting Aug. 9, Gov. Mike DeWine said on Tuesday,
  though they would forego a state subsidy if they do. Providers who
  choose to stay at reduced capacity would receive the subsidy, he said.
  Either way, child care centers would have to keep on performing
  temperature and symptom checks and comply with other health
  requirements.
\item
  The Trump administration on Tuesday said it would extend a \$765
  million loan to the \textbf{Eastman Kodak Company} to make critical
  pharmaceutical components, in an effort to reduce American dependence
  on foreign countries for essential medicines. The arrangement
  leverages the Defense Production Act, a Korean War-era law that gives
  the government vast powers and resources to direct certain kinds of
  production in the interest of national security.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Ten residents at a state-run veterans home in \textbf{Oklahoma}
  \href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/watch/live/?v=2612399062314091\&ref=watch_permalink}{died
  after becoming infected in an outbreak}, the executive director of the
  state's Department of Veterans Affairs said Tuesday. Since July 1, 52
  residents and 21 employees at the Claremore Veterans Center outside
  Tulsa have tested positive, according to the state, which reported
  that 36 residents were hospitalized. The outbreak was most likely
  caused by an asymptomatic employee who unknowingly spread the virus,
  officials said.
\item
  Gov. Jay Inslee of \textbf{Washington} announced Tuesday that he was
  extending indefinitely a statewide pause to counties in various stages
  of reopening, according to The Associated Press. It's the second time
  this month that he has extended the pause, and it comes days after he
  tightened restrictions on indoor activities.
\end{itemize}

New York Roundup

\hypertarget{a-concert-in-the-hamptons-is-being-criticized-for-a-lack-of-social-distancing}{%
\subsection{A concert in the Hamptons is being criticized for a lack of
social
distancing.}\label{a-concert-in-the-hamptons-is-being-criticized-for-a-lack-of-social-distancing}}

Image

Andrew Taggart and Alex Pall of the Chainsmokers performed at the Safe
\& Sound concert in Water Mill, N.Y., on Saturday.Credit...Kevin
Mazur/Getty Images

A charity concert Saturday night in the Hamptons that featured
performances from the chief executive of Goldman Sachs and the D.J. duo
the Chainsmokers drew outrage and a state investigation after video
footage showed attendees appearing to ignore health precautions.

The concert,
\href{https://www.tixr.com/groups/intheknow/events/jaja-presents-safe-sound-hamptons-chainsmokers-18912}{called
Safe \& Sound}, was supposed to involve guests sitting outside near
their vehicles in spaced-out areas to watch the performances, including
one from Jay Schneiderman, the supervisor of the Town of Southampton,
where the concert was held.

The event generated angry social media posts, and on Monday and
\href{https://twitter.com/jessemckinley/status/1288137475513356288}{Tuesday,
criticism from state officials}. In a letter on Monday to Mr.
Schneiderman, New York's health commissioner wrote that he was ``greatly
disturbed'' by reports of thousands of people standing close and
``generally not adhering to social-distancing guidance.''

``We have no tolerance for the illegal \& reckless endangerment of
public health,'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo
\href{https://twitter.com/NYGovCuomo/status/1287901143172108289}{said in
a tweet} on Monday night.

At a news conference in Southampton on Tuesday, Mr. Schneiderman said
that when his band was performing, nobody was crowded in front of the
stage. But he said people were allowed to gather there later, which
violated the permit for the event.

Elsewhere in the New York area:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://twitter.com/NYGovCuomo/status/1288192727323234305}{New
  York}} will require travelers from Puerto Rico, Washington, D.C., and
  \href{https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory}{34
  states to quarantine themselves for 14 days}, Mr. Cuomo said Tuesday.
  The new states added to the list are Illinois, Kentucky and Minnesota.
  Failure to do so could result in fines up to \$10,000.
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://twitter.com/GovNedLamont/status/1288158459272351744}{Connecticut}}
  **** and ****
  \textbf{\href{https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/status/1288154313265750018}{New
  Jersey}}\href{https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/status/1288154313265750018}{}also
  said travelers from those 36 places were subject to a 14-day
  quarantine, though compliance is
  \href{https://covid19.nj.gov/faqs/nj-information/travel-information/which-states-are-on-the-travel-advisory-list-are-there-travel-restrictions-to-or-from-new-jersey}{voluntary
  in New Jersey}. In Connecticut, travelers can avoid quarantine if they
  show documentation that they tested negative within 72 hours of
  arrival. Otherwise, violators are
  \href{https://portal.ct.gov/-/media/Coronavirus/20200723-DPH-travel-advisory.pdf}{subject
  to a \$1,000 fine}.
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/travel/state-travel-restrictions.html}{Many
  states have added traveler restrictions}.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  In \textbf{New Jersey}, 35 lifeguards from two boroughs on Long Beach
  Island, a popular summertime destination, recently
  \href{http://lbihealth.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/pressrelease727.pdf}{tested
  positive}, the island's health department said Monday. Half had mild
  symptoms and the rest had none, public health officials said; none
  were hospitalized.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{germany-an-early-model-for-containing-the-virus-is-confronting-a-surge-its-top-health-experts-urge-masks}{%
\subsection{Germany, an early model for containing the virus, is
confronting a surge. Its top health experts urge
masks.}\label{germany-an-early-model-for-containing-the-virus-is-confronting-a-surge-its-top-health-experts-urge-masks}}

Image

Enjoying the weather in Munich on Sunday. Germans are being urged to
wear masks outdoors if distance cannot be maintained.Credit...Matthias
Schrader/Associated Press

The German federal agency in charge of disease control sounded an alarm
on Tuesday over a rising number of cases across the nation.

Lothar Wieler, the leader of the agency, the
\href{https://www.rki.de/EN/Home/homepage_node.html}{Robert Koch
Institute}, urged Germans for the first time to wear masks outdoors if a
distance of 1.5 meters, or about 5 feet, cannot be maintained.

Germany reported 633 new cases on Monday, and four deaths. Though
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany's
daily death count} has been in the single digits for most of this month,
it has seen more than 3,000 new cases over the past week.

``The new developments in Germany make me very worried,'' Mr. Wieler
said, adding, ``The rise has to do with the fact that we have become
negligent.''

When the virus began spreading in March, Germany imposed one of the
strictest lockdowns in Europe. It was seen as a model for other
countries. Since it began reopening, there have been flare-ups that have
spurred local lockdowns,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-reopening.html}{including
one in June.}

But on Tuesday, Mr. Wieler said he wondered if this latest uptick was a
harbinger of something more.

``We don't know if this is the beginning of a second wave, but of course
it could be,'' he said. He added, ``I am still optimistic that we can
prevent this.''

\hypertarget{the-pandemic-takes-an-extra-toll-on-families-with-special-needs}{%
\subsection{The pandemic takes an extra toll on families with special
needs.}\label{the-pandemic-takes-an-extra-toll-on-families-with-special-needs}}

Missing social contacts and altered routines can be particularly intense
for children with developmental challenges. Disturbed sleep and eating
habits, too, can make life more challenging for the children and their
families. Here are some strategies to cope better.

Reporting was contributed by Geneva Abdul, Davey Alba, Ian Austen, Julia
Calderone, **** Kenneth Chang, Cooper, **** Michael Crowley, Sheera
Frenkel, Dana Goldstein, Andrew E. Kramer, Tyler Kepner, Raphael Minder,
Claire Moses, Amanda Rosa, Edgar Sandoval, Anna Schaverien, Kaly Soto,
Eleanor Stanford, Eileen Sullivan, Lucy Tompkins, Daniel Victor, Neil
Vigdor, James Wagner, Vivian Yee**,** Elaine Yu and Mihir Zaveri.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
