Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}A Wrinkle in Stores' Mask
Policies: Enforcement

\url{https://nyti.ms/3g8juyg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-wrinkle-in-stores-mask-policies-enforcement}{%
\section{A Wrinkle in Stores' Mask Policies:
Enforcement}\label{a-wrinkle-in-stores-mask-policies-enforcement}}

A number of large retailers have said that all customers must wear
masks, but some employees have been told they cannot force those who
refuse.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/30/business/30virus-retailmasks-sub/28virus-retailmasks-sub-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-michael-corkery/author-michael-corkery-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-corkery}{Michael
Corkery}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Christopher Vanderpool works shifts as a
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/business/walmart-requiring-masks.html?searchResultPosition=1}{health
ambassador}'' at a Walmart in Fayetteville, N.C., For \$11 an hour, he
stands in the parking lot asking customers to put on masks before
entering the store.

Many abide by the rule. Others, the 18-year-old said, ``will say `No, I
am not wearing that garbage,' or some expletive.''

``Everyone is so tense,'' Mr. Vanderpool said. ``I would be scared to
confront people.''

Big retailers have made strong statements recently about their new rules
requiring customers to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/which-stores-require-masks.html?searchResultPosition=3}{wear
face masks} when shopping, saying that the health of their workers and
customers is paramount. But when it comes to enforcing those mandates,
the companies are taking a decidedly hands-off approach.

Walmart has told employees that they should not prevent a customer from
entering the store if they refuse to wear a mask. Walgreens said that
``for the safety of our team members'' the company would not bar
customers without masks from its stores. Lowes also said it would ``not
ask our associates to put their safety at risk by confronting customers
about wearing masks.''

Many shoppers and workers say the retailers' reluctance to police their
customers' mask wearing ultimately renders the new rules toothless and
will perpetuate the spread of the coronavirus. And workers find
themselves thrust onto the front line of a cultural and political war
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/03/us/coronavirus-masks-protests.html}{over
masks} that can lead to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-masks-violence.html?searchResultPosition=105}{ugly
confrontations} and, at times, violence. Last weekend, two episodes
stood out: In one, a video of an altercation involving two shoppers in
Walmart wearing masks with a Nazi swastika went viral, while a man
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/palmbeachcountysheriff/}{was
arrested} after an incident in a Walmart in Palm Beach County, Fla., in
which he pulled a gun on another shopper who had asked him to put on his
mask.

Adding to the tension at his store, Mr. Vanderpool said that he's
noticed more customers coming in with guns, including Glocks and other
handguns, sometimes tucked into their waistbands. North Carolina is
among states that allow people to carry firearms openly.

Walmart enacted a rule last year asking customers not to bring firearms
into its stores, after nearly two dozen people
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/03/us/el-paso-shooting.html}{were
shot and killed} in one of its locations in El Paso. In a stance echoed
by its mask policy, the company said managers of stores in states that
have open-carry laws are instructed to ask customers to leave their gun
in their car. But they do not obstruct the person from shopping in the
store, even if they bring their gun. Walmart said there had not been a
recent increase in shoppers bringing guns into stores across the country
during the pandemic.

Mr. Vanderpool said Walmart should hire security guards to enforce the
mask rule and protect employees from contracting the virus. ``They
should be able to say if you don't have a mask you cannot come into our
store,'' said Mr. Vanderpool, who is enrolled at Brown University in the
fall. ****

In a statement, Walmart said, ``we are pleased that the vast majority of
the 150 million customers who visit us each week are wearing masks.''

The retailer said that if someone didn't want to wear a mask, managers
``will talk to the customer and try to find a solution. We do not want
our associates to do anything that could lead to a physical
confrontation.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{52h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{55h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{61h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Walmart said it was also trying to accommodate shoppers who cannot wear
masks for medical or religious reasons.

But some shoppers say the retailers are taking the easy way out by
announcing mask policies that are not true mandates.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/28/business/28virus-retailmasks-3/merlin_175034292_21b5a829-03be-4e37-aa9e-cf8b5f20f7d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Toni Vitanza has shopped regularly for her husband's medication at a
Walgreens near their home in Clemson, S.C., but has transferred his
prescriptions to another retailer after observing shoppers without masks
and employees saying that their managers expressly told them not to do
anything about it.

``My feeling is, if you cannot say something as simple as, `You have to
wear a mask in the store,' you shouldn't be working in a store,'' she
said. ``I refuse to believe that every person who gets angry about
having to wear a mask is capable of committing murder.''

A retired flight attendant, Ms. Vitanza said that she regularly had to
ask passengers to do things they didn't want to do --- and on a few
occasions she had to have some of them removed from the plane. She often
used humor to defuse a situation. ``But maybe with 150,000 people dead,
we are past humor,'' she said.

``We all know there is a certain percentage of human beings who just
like getting away with something,'' she said. ``These people are having
a field day.''

In a statement, a Walgreens spokeswoman said: ``We ask that all
customers adhere to strong recommendations from health officials to wear
face covers in public,'' but added that ``our store staff may remind
customers of this policy, however for the safety of our team members, we
are not otherwise confronting individuals nor refusing service to those
who do not follow it.''

Retailers are likely on solid legal ground if they decline service to
someone refusing to wear a mask, especially if they offer alternative
ways for customers to shop, such as home delivery and curbside pickup.

Legal experts say retailers could run into issues of discrimination if
they start asking detailed questions about why someone declines to wear
a mask.

``Retailers don't want to be in the business of interviewing everyone
who comes in the door,'' said Natalie Sanders, a lawyer at Brooks
Pierce, a North Carolina law firm that is advising companies on mask
policies. ``Retailers are making difficult decisions and doing the best
they can. They have to make a judgment call.''

But in reality, many of the judgment calls are being made by the
retailer workers, not their giant employers, every hour in an
increasingly unpredictable environment.

After losing her job at a nonprofit in March, Chivonne Washington was
low on cash and unable to qualify for unemployment. The manager of the
Acme grocery store in White Plains, N.Y., gave her a job and \$40 ``for
my pocket.''

``He had compassion,'' Ms. Washington said of the store manager.

Image

Chivonne Washington, an Acme~ store employee in White Plains, N.Y.,
asked a customer to put on a mask. She said ``he was very aggressive''
in refusing.~Credit...Natalie Keyssar for The New York Times

But Ms. Washington said she was constantly navigating how to deal with
customers who were not wearing masks.

When she recently told a man waiting at her checkout line to put on his
mask, ``he was very aggressive,'' she recalled.

``He told me, `Why are you running your mouth?''' He took his items to a
different line. Before leaving the store, the man told a manager that
Ms. Washington ``talked too much.''

Christine Wilcox, a spokeswoman for Acme's parent company, Albertsons,
said store managers have been told to speak with customers who are not
wearing masks. ``If a customer refuses to wear a mask and to leave the
store, we permit the customer to continue shopping in order to avoid
conflicts that would put the store director or other employees and
customers at risk,'' she said in a statement.

If the store is in a community where masks are required by law, then the
store manager ``will also contact local law enforcement,'' Ms. Wilcox
said.

But Ms. Washington, who earns about \$230 a week at Acme, has been doing
her part to help. When a woman came in without a mask, Ms. Washington
went out to her car to get her one. Some of her colleagues who are timid
about confronting customers without masks have asked Ms. Washington to
get involved.

``I saw someone take off their mask in the store to sneeze,'' said Ms.
Washington, who is a member of Local 338 of the Retail, Wholesale, and
Department Store Union and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
``This is what we are dealing with --- a lack of common sense.''

The Retail, Wholesale, and Department Store Union, representing workers
at Macy's and Bloomingdales in New York, insisted that the stores could
reopen only if it was stated that if a customer is not wearing a mask,
an employee cannot help them and must immediately locate a manager.

Stuart Appelbaum, the union's president, said retailers needed to invest
in more security guards or empower management to confront shoppers, not
leave it up to rank-and-file workers. But not enforcing the rules, when
they are challenged, is not effective, he said.

``A rule that isn't enforced,'' Mr. Appelbaum said, ``is not a rule.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
