Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Biden Announces \$2 Trillion
Climate Plan

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CALnjy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-announces-2-trillion-climate-plan}{%
\section{Biden Announces \$2 Trillion Climate
Plan}\label{biden-announces-2-trillion-climate-plan}}

Joe Biden's plan connects tackling climate~change with the economic
recovery from the coronavirus crisis, while also addressing racism. The
proposal drew praise from his onetime critics.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/14/us/politics/14biden-climate-plan/14biden-climate-plan-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 14, 2020Updated Aug. 11, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} announced on Tuesday a new plan to spend \$2 trillion over
four years to significantly escalate the use of clean energy in the
transportation, electricity and building sectors, part of a suite of
sweeping proposals designed to create economic opportunities and
strengthen infrastructure while also tackling climate change.

In a speech in Wilmington, Del., Mr. Biden built on his plans,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{released
last week}, for reviving the economy in the wake of the coronavirus
crisis, with a new focus on enhancing the nation's infrastructure and
emphasizing the importance of significantly cutting fossil fuel
emissions. As he denounced
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}'s stewardship of the virus and climate change, he drew criticism
from Republicans --- but he also faced a key test from progressives who
have long been skeptical of the scope of his climate ambitions.

``These are the most critical investments we can make for the long-term
health and vitality of both the American economy and the physical health
and safety of the American people,'' he said. ``When Donald Trump thinks
about climate change, the only word he can muster is `hoax.' When I
think about climate change, the word I think of is `jobs.'''

The proposal is the second plank in Mr. Biden's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/09/us/politics/biden-buy-american.html}{economic
recovery plan}. His team sees an opportunity to take direct aim at Mr.
Trump, who has struggled to deliver on his pledges to pay for major
improvements to American infrastructure.

``Seems like every few weeks when he needs a distraction from the latest
charges of corruption in his staff, or the conviction of high-ranking
members of administration and political apparatus, the White House
announces, quote, `It's Infrastructure Week,''' Mr. Biden said,
referring to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/22/us/politics/trump-infrastructure-week.html}{long-running
Washington joke}. ``He's never delivered. Never really even tried. Well,
I know how to get it done.''

Throughout his remarks, Mr. Biden sought to signal that he grasps the
urgency of global climate challenges while also casting the issue as the
next great test of American ingenuity.

``I know meeting the challenge would be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity
to jolt new life into our economy, strengthen our global leadership,
protect our planet for future generations,'' Mr. Biden said. ``If I have
the honor of being elected president, we're not just going to tinker
around the edges. We're going to make historic investments that will
seize the opportunity, meet this moment in history.''

Even before Mr. Biden spoke, Mr. Trump's allies painted the plan as a
costly threat to jobs in the energy sector, and his campaign sought to
link the proposal to the Green New Deal, the far-reaching climate plan.

Early Tuesday evening, in an appearance from the White House Rose
Garden, Mr. Trump launched into a rambling attack on his opponent filled
with falsehoods and baseless claims, while also seeking to paint Mr.
Biden and his environmental plan as radical.

Mr. Biden's ``agenda is the most extreme platform of any major party
nominee, by far, in American history,'' Mr. Trump said. Referring to Mr.
Biden's primary opponent, the progressive Senator Bernie Sanders, he
continued, ``I think it's worse than actually Bernie's platform.''

In fact, many liberals have long been unenthusiastic at best about Mr.
Biden, a former Delaware senator who staunchly opposes a range of
progressives' top priorities: He has said that he does not support
``Medicare for all'' or defunding the police, he has not fully endorsed
the Green New Deal and has reservations about marijuana legalization.
His record on issues like criminal justice has drawn fierce criticism
from the left, and some in his party view his reverence for bipartisan
deal-making as na√Øve.

Still, his climate plan does appear to have made some inroads with
progressive Democrats.

``This is not a status quo plan,'' said Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, a
prominent environmentalist who ran a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/21/us/politics/jay-inslee-2020-campaign.html}{climate-focused
campaign} for the Democratic presidential nomination and later
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/us/politics/jay-inslee-endorses-biden.html}{endorsed
Mr. Biden}.

He added: ``It is comprehensive. This is not some sort of, `Let me just
throw a bone to those who care about climate change.''' Mr. Inslee
called the proposal ``visionary.''

Mr. Biden's plan outlines specific and aggressive targets, including
achieving an emissions-free power sector by 2035 and upgrading four
million buildings over four years to meet the highest standards for
energy efficiency.

Mr. Biden's remarks sometimes assumed a populist bent, directly
challenging Mr. Trump's efforts to woo workers in the industrial Midwest
with promises of ``America First'' job policies. As Mr. Biden discussed
converting government vehicles into electric vehicles, he promised that
``the U.S. auto industry and its deep bench of suppliers will step up,
expanding capacity so that the United States, not China, leads the world
in clean vehicle production.''

And he offered a vision for ``new, clean, made-in-America vehicles'' to
be made more accessible to American consumers as well.

He also pressed the need to link environmental advocacy to racial
justice, describing pollution and other toxic harms that
disproportionately affect communities of color. His plan calls for
establishing an office of environmental and climate justice at the
Justice Department and developing a broad set of tools to address how
``environmental policy decisions of the past have failed communities of
color.''

Mr. Biden set a goal for disadvantaged communities to receive 40 percent
of all clean energy and infrastructure benefits he was proposing. He
also made explicit references to tribal communities and called for
expanding broadband access to tribal lands.

Elizabeth Kronk Warner, the dean of the S.J. Quinney College of Law at
the University of Utah and a citizen of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of
Chippewa Indians, said she was pleasantly surprised by Mr. Biden's plan.

``Usually environmental justice is an afterthought or it's not clearly
quantified,'' she said. ``As a citizen of a tribe, I very much
appreciate that he explicitly references tribal communities.''

In a call with reporters on Tuesday morning, senior Biden campaign
officials said the proposal was the product of discussions with climate
activists and experts; union officials and representatives from the
private sector; and mayors and governors. Evergreen Action, an
organization that advocates far-reaching climate goals and is led by a
number of former Inslee staff members, also discussed ideas with Mr.
Biden's staff in recent months, the organization said.

Mr. Biden's original plan called for spending \$1.7 trillion over 10
years with a goal of achieving net-zero emissions before 2050. The new
blueprint significantly increases the amount of money and accelerates
the timetable.

To pay for it, campaign officials said, Mr. Biden proposes an increase
in the corporate income tax rate to 28 percent from 21 percent, ``asking
the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share,'' and using some
still-undetermined amount of stimulus money.

Mr. Biden's team said the proposal included a combination of executive
actions and legislation. The legislation would require congressional
cooperation. That is hardly a certainty in a partisan political
environment, especially if Republicans maintain control of the Senate or
retake the House of Representatives, even as polls show the G.O.P.
facing major political headwinds.

Representative Steve Scalise, Republican of Louisiana and the House
Republican whip, suggested the plan was a boondoggle.

``The only thing I can think of is that is Solyndra on steroids,'' he
said on a Trump campaign call, referring to the California solar company
that went bankrupt and had received a \$535 million loan guarantee from
the Obama administration. ``You would have higher energy costs and you
would see who gets hit the hardest --- it's low-income families.''

Mr. Biden insisted that ``these aren't pie-in-the-sky dreams,'' saying,
``These are actionable policies.''

One major element of the announcement will include charting a path to
zero carbon pollution from the U.S. electricity sector by 2035.
According to the Energy Information Association, coal and natural gas
still account for more than 60 percent of the sector.

Campaign officials said they expected to achieve the goal by encouraging
the installation of ``millions of new solar panels and tens of thousands
of wind turbines,'' but also keeping in place existing nuclear energy
plants. The plan also will call for investing in carbon capture and
storage technology for natural gas.

Under the plan, Mr. Biden also promises new research funding and tax
incentives for carbon-capture technology.

Kathleen Sgamma, the president of the Western Energy Alliance, which
represents oil and gas companies, said Mr. Biden's goals were
``unrealistic'' and would hurt energy producers.

``We'll focus on moderating these policies once Biden moves from
appeasing the left during the campaign to potentially governing,'' she
said.

Reid J. Epstein and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 7, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall presidential campaign
    centered on Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{two
    pivotal states for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
