Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{Television}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/television}{Television}\textbar{}Comfort Viewing: 3
Reasons I Love `Dark Shadows'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EPob2N}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comfort-viewing-3-reasons-i-love-dark-shadows}{%
\section{Comfort Viewing: 3 Reasons I Love `Dark
Shadows'}\label{comfort-viewing-3-reasons-i-love-dark-shadows}}

It was camp; it was scary; it was one of the most popular daytime soaps
of its day. And for a gay teenager in the '80s, it was perfect.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/05/arts/04comfort-shadows/04comfort-shadows-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/erik-piepenburg}{Erik
Piepenburg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

This story starts when ``Dark Shadows'' ends.

It was 1971, and my mother was set to have me by C-section. Her doctor
originally scheduled the procedure for April 1, but my mother balked at
having an April Fool's baby. Instead, I greeted the world on April 2, a
chilly Friday in Cleveland.

It was also, much to my mother's alarm, the day her beloved soap opera
--- the supernatural drama ``Dark Shadows'' --- aired its final episode
on ABC. As she tells it, she demanded I be delivered in the morning
because she sure as Hades wasn't going to miss ``Dark Shadows'' that
afternoon. She got her wish.

I think about devotion these pandemic nights as I stay up late to watch
the original ``Dark Shadows''
\href{https://tubitv.com/series/4638/dark_shadows}{on the streaming
service Tubi}. When the series debuted on June 27, 1966, it was unlike
anything before or, I would say, since. ABC
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oYlrxfOf3S4}{described} it as
``daytime television's first continuing suspense drama,'' which is like
saying Freddy Krueger is a grumpy guy in a cute sweater. Created by Dan
Curtis, ``Dark Shadows'' was a macabre and bonkers upside-down of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/07/19/arts/television/19karp.html}{``Peyton
Place,''} a more conventional soap opera popular of its time. (Both were
equally white.)

The story arcs on ``Dark Shadows'' traversed the 18th, 19th and 20th
centuries, and centered on the old-money Collins family at the
Collinwood estate in small-town Collinsport, Maine. Wallace McBride, the
curator of the
\href{http://www.collinsporthistoricalsociety.com/}{Collinsport
Historical Society}, a ``Dark Shadows'' fan site, called the series
```Star Trek' for introverts.''

``If `Star Trek' was about going new places and meeting new people,
`Dark Shadows' is about staying inside,'' McBride said in an interview
last month. ``Characters travel to other dimensions without leaving the
family house. It's very personal and inward focused.''

``Dark Shadows'' was horror to the bone. Poor Collinsport was terrorized
by witchcraft, killer ghosts, lycanthropy and I don't know how many
other evil doings. (Full disclosure: I'm not yet halfway through its
1,225 episodes.) In Episode 211, the show introduced the vampire
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WyYg2bD-U94}{Barnabas Collins},
played by the Shakespearean actor
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/04/20/arts/television/jonathan-frid-ghoulish-dark-shadows-star-dies-at-87.html}{Jonathan
Frid}. Barnabas became a global phenomenon and unlikely sex symbol who
helped make the series one of the most popular soap operas of the era.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/05/arts/04comfort-shadows-5/04comfort-shadows-5-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

With so many episodes, watching ``Dark Shadows'' is a herculean binge.
Already the series's weird coolness has drawn me in like the undead to
the living. Why do I and so many horror fans have a connection with a
Gothic melodrama that's so old it was pre-empted by the moon landing?

I called Kathryn Leigh Scott, who played the kindly waitress Maggie
Evans, to get her take. (Like many of the cast members, she also played
many other roles in this time-hopping series --- it's complicated.)

``The reason young kids used to run home from school to watch the show
was that it was pure escapism,'' Scott explained. ``No matter how much
kids picked on you in class, at least you weren't bitten by a vampire.
It took you to another realm. Almost everything was about an outsider.''

Ah. As a kid, I was what you'd call a triple-threat outsider. I grew up
in the '80s as a gay teenager who didn't know what gay was. I was a
geek. I was chubby. On summer afternoons as other kids played something
called sports, I was alone, devouring ``All My Children,'' ``One Life to
Live,'' ``General Hospital'' and sometimes
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aZwTIaYAEOU}{``The Edge of
Night''} if the TV in my room picked up the Akron station.

It's now decades later, and I'm still kind of an outsider. I can't
possibly be gayer. I've become a horror geek, and I'm still a little
chubby. And I still love watching old soap operas, especially ``Dark
Shadows.'' Here's why.

Image

Like a darker ``Groundhog Day,'' the fate of Laura Collins (played by
Diana Millay) was to go up in flames every so often and then be
reborn.Credit...ABC, via Tubi

\hypertarget{its-old-school-scary}{%
\subsection{It's Old-School Scary}\label{its-old-school-scary}}

My love of horror has one source: my grandmother Blanca, my mother's
mother, who kick-started my affection with classic
\href{https://universalmonsters.fandom.com/wiki/Universal_Monsters}{Universal
monster movies} like ``Dracula'' and ``Frankenstein.'' The influence of
these canonical films pervades ``Dark Shadows.'' It's in the contour of
a mysterious figure backlit by frenzied lighting strikes. It's in the
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfWIQfqik3c}{ghostly theme song},
composed by
\href{https://variety.com/2020/music/obituaries-people-news/bob-cobert-dead-dies-dark-shadows-winds-of-war-1203512992/}{Bob
Cobert} (and released on a best-selling ``Dark Shadows''
\href{https://metv.com/stories/rip-bob-cobert-who-composed-the-eerie-music-of-dark-shadows}{soundtrack}).
It's in the show's chilly mausoleums and creaky coffins.

As I watch, it's as if the pioneering horror directors
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1957/05/30/archives/film-producer-dead-james-whale-falls-into-pool-directed.html}{James
Whale} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1962/10/10/archives/tod-browning-80-exfilm-director-maker-of-chaney-and-lugosi-films.html}{Tod
Browning} were off-camera, beaming. Best of all, it's as if my
grandmother were, too.

\hypertarget{its-queer}{%
\subsection{It's Queer}\label{its-queer}}

``Dark Shadows'' is a soap opera. Everybody has secrets. But a sexual
vampire in Stonewall-era America is a \emph{queer} secret. Barnabas was
a cursed man with forbidden attractions, which sounds a lot like what
queer people at the time were told their sad lives were about. Yet for
many people, especially young fans in the closet, Barnabas was as
familiar as he was frightening. (Like many actors on the show, Frid was
\href{http://weareflagrant.com/eleven-dark-shadows-actors-probably-didnt-know-gay/}{known
to be gay}, but he never publicly came out.)

Image

Louis Edmonds, who came out later in life, played an irritable priss
fond of cravats and turtlenecks.Credit...ABC, via IMDb TV

There are many queer delights in ``Dark Shadows,'' but two performances
stand out. The actor Louis Edmonds,
\href{http://weareflagrant.com/eleven-dark-shadows-actors-probably-didnt-know-gay/}{who
came out later in life}, gave a delicious performance as the irritable
priss Roger Collins, who wears cravats and turtlenecks and uses words
like ``preposterous.'' (You know the type.) And I swear the old New York
City gay club Splash used to play clips of Grayson Hall's
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PmfVofgcYT0}{camptastic
performance} as Dr. Julia Hoffman.

\hypertarget{its-butterfingered}{%
\subsection{It's Butterfingered}\label{its-butterfingered}}

``Dark Shadows'' was taped live. As with theater, anything could and did
go wrong. That means the series is occasionally a Schadenfreude parade
of microphone shadows, flubbed lines and my favorite: exposed
stagehands. (The invaluable
\href{https://darkshadows.fandom.com/wiki/Dark_Shadows_Wiki}{``Dark
Shadows'' wiki} keeps track of bloopers and continuity errors.) It's
fascinating to see how the TV sausage was made when there was no
stopping and no C.G.I. to clean up a mess.

Many cast members came from theater, so they were used to recovering
after flubbing their lines. But my God, there's nothing more thrilling
than seeing the great
\href{http://www.collinsporthistoricalsociety.com/2012/04/look-back-at-joan-bennett-week.html}{Joan
Bennett}, a treasure from Hollywood's Golden Age, look at another actor
with eyes that whisper: I have no idea what to say next.

Sometimes ``Dark Shadows'' is messy and unpolished. That's human, and
that's a comfort.

\emph{Watch it on}
\href{https://tubitv.com/series/300004693/dark_shadows_the_beginning}{\emph{Tubi}}
\emph{or}
\href{https://www.amazon.com/gp/video/detail/B0143JHTFW/ref=atv_dp_share_cu_r}{\emph{Amazon
Prime Video}}\emph{. If you want only the Barnabas part of the series,
which is most of it, look for ``Dark Shadows''; pre-Barnabas episodes
are found online as ``Dark Shadows: The Beginning.''}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
