Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/trump-impeachment}{The
Trump Impeachment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/us/politics/trump-acquitted-impeachment.html}{The
  Acquittal}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/02/05/us/politics/impeachment-vote-results.html}{How
  Senators Voted}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/28/us/politics/impeachment-legal-teams.html}{The
  Legal Teams}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/22/us/politics/impeachment-articles-arguments.html}{The
  Case For and Against}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{day-in-impeachment-democrats-focus-on-abuse-of-power}{%
\section{Day in Impeachment: Democrats Focus on Abuse of
Power}\label{day-in-impeachment-democrats-focus-on-abuse-of-power}}

The House managers addressed the first article of impeachment against
President Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/23/us/politics/23dc-liveblog-managers-copy/23dc-liveblog-managers-copy-videoSixteenByNine3000-v6.jpg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  House impeachment managers addressed the first
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/12/10/us/politics/articles-impeachment-document-pdf.html}{article
  of impeachment} and a key administration argument: whether there needs
  to have been criminal conduct for impeachment. The
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/nadler-gives-a-history-lesson-in-arguing-that-no-crime-is-needed-for-impeachment\#live-blog-list}{Democrats
  say no}.
\item
  The Democrats made a strategic
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/democrats-make-a-strategic-decision-in-focusing-on-the-bidens-trumps-lawyer-sees-a-mistake\#live-blog-list}{decision
  to focus on the Bidens} during their presentation and
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/house-managers-trump-evidence}{used
  President Trump's own words} against him. Here are
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/us/politics/trump-impeachment-hearing-today.html}{highlights
  from Day 2} of the opening arguments.
\item
  From half a world away, Speaker Nancy Pelosi
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/us/politics/pelosi-trump-impeachment.html}{is
  keeping a tight grip} on the impeachment trial. Mr. Trump is scheduled
  to take a day trip to Florida to give private remarks to the
  Republican National Committee's winter meeting. He
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/is-president-trump-watching-the-trial\#live-blog-list}{posted
  on Twitter about a ``witness trade''} as the arguments began.
\end{itemize}

Last Updated

Jan. 23, 2020, 11:19 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 11:19 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:59 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:59 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\hypertarget{schiff-ends-the-day-with-a-fiery-push-for-trumps-removal}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{schiff-trump-removal}{Schiff
ends the day with a fiery push for Trump's
removal.}}{Schiff ends the day with a fiery push for Trump's removal.}}\label{schiff-ends-the-day-with-a-fiery-push-for-trumps-removal}}

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the lead impeachment
manager, stepped back to the Senate lectern around 10 p.m. Eastern to
deliver one final argument for the day. It turned out to be a
stemwinder, jolting the sleepy Senate to attention as Mr. Schiff argued
more explicitly than ever before for President Trump's removal from
office.

The president's prosecutor began by re-evaluating the now familiar
transcript of Mr. Trump's July 25 phone call with President Volodymyr
Zelensky of Ukraine, urging senators to hear it with fresh ears after
two days of arguments by the House. But his challenge to senators was a
straightforward one: Do you really believe that this president, the one
on this call, has put the nation's interests before his own and will do
so in the future?

``You know you can't trust this president to do what is right for this
country,'' he said. ``You can trust he will do what's right for Donald
Trump.''

What, Mr. Schiff asked, if China interfered in the coming election to
help Mr. Trump? Does anyone not expect him to accept it?

``If you find him guilty, you must find that he should be removed,'' Mr.
Schiff concluded. ``Because right matters. Because the truth matters.
Otherwise, we are lost.''

The trial was set to reconvene on Friday at 1 p.m. for the managers to
discuss the second impeachment charge, obstruction of Congress, and
close out their case.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:18 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:18 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\hypertarget{senators-are-restless-as-the-trial-stretches-into-the-night}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{senators-trial-night}{Senators
are restless as the trial stretches into the
night.}}{Senators are restless as the trial stretches into the night.}}\label{senators-are-restless-as-the-trial-stretches-into-the-night}}

Image

Over a dozen cars at the Capitol idled waiting to take senators away
from the trial.Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, wanted a change of
perspective. So as the third day of President Trump's impeachment trial
stretched into yet another late night, he climbed a flight of stairs and
took a seat in the Senate's visitors' gallery perched above the chamber.

Legs crossed, he looked down on his colleagues and the Democratic House
managers, arranged like pieces on a board.

``Want to see what it's like for you guys,'' he said for reporters to
hear.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, emerged from a cloakroom with
a magazine in hand, returned to his desk and began flipping through the
pages. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, abandoned her
desk and stood against the back wall of the chamber, where colleagues
came and went.

The managers, though, showed no signs of tiring as they approached eight
hours of oral arguments.

Representatives Zoe Lofgren of California and Jason Crow of Colorado
plowed through Mr. Trump's decision to withhold \$391 million in
military aid from Ukraine to ramp up the pressure on its leaders to
deliver politically beneficial investigations he sought. They said it
was the third official act undertaken as part of Mr. Trump's abuse of
power.

``If there was no quid pro quo, then why did everybody know about it?''
Mr. Crow asked.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:11 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 10:11 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\hypertarget{white-house-seemed-reluctant-to-help-with-watchdog-inquiry}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{white-house-watchdog-inquiry}{White
House seemed reluctant to help with watchdog
inquiry.}}{White House seemed reluctant to help with watchdog inquiry.}}\label{white-house-seemed-reluctant-to-help-with-watchdog-inquiry}}

Image

Senator Chris Van Hollen released documents on Thursday showing that the
White House ultimately declined to respond to a watchdog's request for
details.Credit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times

When a federal watchdog pressed the administration for details on the
decision to withhold security aid to Ukraine, the White House ultimately
declined to respond, according to documents released on Thursday by
Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland. The administration
instead pointed to a legal memo from the Office of Management and Budget
that asserted the hold was ``appropriate'' so as to avoid ``conflict
with the president's foreign policy.''

Brian Miller, a senior associate counsel to the president, responding to
the request, wrote, ``The White House does not plan to respond
separately to your letters.'' The Defense Department also declined to
respond to the watchdog, the Government Accountability Office, saying
that it needed ``prior coordination with the other agencies involved.''

The watchdog found last week that the budget office violated the law
when it withheld nearly \$400 million over the summer for ``a policy
reason.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-alicia-parlapiano/author-alicia-parlapiano-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 8:18 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 8:18 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{Alicia
Parlapiano}

\hypertarget{a-courtroom-artist-illustrates-2-senators-at-work}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{art-lien-courtroom}{A
courtroom artist illustrates 2 senators at
work.}}{A courtroom artist illustrates 2 senators at work.}}\label{a-courtroom-artist-illustrates-2-senators-at-work}}

Image

Credit...Art Lien for The New York Times

Sketches on Thursday by the courtroom artist Art Lien capture several
restless senators during the presentations by House managers. But
Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska --- two
moderate Republicans who have signaled they
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/14/us/politics/republicans-impeachment-witnesses.html}{may
be open to calling witnesses} --- appeared to be closely following the
arguments.

See all of Mr. Lien's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/16/us/politics/senate-impeachment-trial-sketches.html}{drawings
from Mr. Trump's trial here}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Jan. 23, 2020, 7:26 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 7:26 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie
Edmondson}

\hypertarget{graham-says-hell-resist-calls-for-the-bidens-to-testify}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{graham-says-hell-resist-calls-for-the-bidens-to-testify}{Graham
says he'll resist calls for the Bidens to
testify.}}{Graham says he'll resist calls for the Bidens to testify.}}\label{graham-says-hell-resist-calls-for-the-bidens-to-testify}}

Image

Senator Lindsey Graham speaking with reporters on Thursday.Credit...Doug
Mills/The New York Times

As senators filed back into the chamber to resume opening arguments
after a brief dinner break, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South
Carolina, told reporters he would resist calls from conservatives next
week to try to call the whistle-blower and the Bidens to testify at the
trial.

``There'll be a lot of pressure on me to call the whistle-blower, to
call Schiff, to call Hunter Biden and Joe Biden,'' Mr. Graham said.
``I'm not going to give in to that pressure, because I don't think it
will serve the Senate and the country well, there's ways to do this
outside of this trial.''

The president was ``having the reaction that a normal person would have
if they thought they were being accused of something they didn't do,''
Mr. Graham said, adding that the experience was ``very emotional.''

And he quickly shot down the idea that Mr. Trump should attend the
trial, a possibility the president floated this week. ``In case you're
listening,'' Mr. Graham said, ``don't come.''

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:32 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:32 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{the-trial-breaks-for-dinner}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-trial-breaks-for-dinner}{The
trial breaks for
dinner.}}{The trial breaks for dinner.}}\label{the-trial-breaks-for-dinner}}

The Senate impeachment trial has taken a 30-minute dinner break, giving
senators a chance to eat, use the restroom and do what they do best ---
run to the cameras and talk to reporters.

The presentation by the House managers will resume when the break is
over. (That could be longer than 30 minutes, since lawmakers rarely
stick to schedule.) It's unclear how much longer the presentations will
go, but several hours more is a good guess.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:28 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:28 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{jeffries-cracks-a-rare-joke-adding-a-moment-of-levity}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jeffries-joke}{Jeffries
cracks a rare joke, adding a moment of
levity.}}{Jeffries cracks a rare joke, adding a moment of levity.}}\label{jeffries-cracks-a-rare-joke-adding-a-moment-of-levity}}

Image

Representative Hakeem Jeffries, right, added a moment of levity to the
arguments before he went into the case against the
president.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

Mark it down: The first joke of President Trump's impeachment trial took
place just before 6 p.m. on Thursday. Representative Hakeem Jeffries of
New York, one of the House managers, strode up to the lectern and in
somber tones thanked the chief justice, the senators and the White House
lawyers. Then he told a story about running into a fellow New Yorker who
asked if he had heard the latest outrage. Mr. Jeffries told the senators
that he assumed Mr. Trump, back in town after a trip overseas, had again
done something outrageous.

``Someone voted against Derek Jeter on his Hall of Fame ballot,'' Mr.
Jeffries said the friend told him, referring to the Yankees shortstop.
Several senators in the chamber chuckled.

``I understand that, as House managers, certainly we hope we can
subpoena John Bolton, subpoena Mick Mulvaney,'' Mr. Jeffries went on.
``But perhaps we can all agree --- subpoena the Baseball Hall of Fame to
try to figure out who out of 397 individuals, one person, goes against
Derek Jeter.'' There were more chuckles, including from Senator Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

After the joke, Mr. Jeffries moved to the more serious issues of the
day, focusing on the president's efforts to pressure Ukraine for
investigations by withholding a White House meeting.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/12/10/multimedia/author-alicia-parlapiano/author-alicia-parlapiano-thumbLarge.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:19 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:19 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alicia-parlapiano}{Alicia
Parlapiano}

\hypertarget{see-how-the-senate-has-been-transformed-into-a-courtroom}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{see-how-the-senate-has-been-transformed-into-a-courtroom}{See
how the Senate has been transformed into a
courtroom.}}{See how the Senate has been transformed into a courtroom.}}\label{see-how-the-senate-has-been-transformed-into-a-courtroom}}

Image

A sketch of the Senate chamber.Credit...Anjali Singhvi/The New York
Times

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/19/business/media/senate-impeachment-trial-media.html}{video
cameras in the Senate chamber} have been almost exclusively focused on
one place during the impeachment trial --- a small area at the front of
the room where the chief justice and those speaking at the lectern
appear.

Taking photos and other video of the space is not allowed, so in order
to provide a more comprehensive view of how the chamber
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/senate-impeachment-trial-furniture.html}{has
been transformed into a courtroom}, The Times sent a graphics editor to
draw it.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/23/us/politics/impeachment-senate-chamber-diagram.html}{See
the 3D rendering here}, and look for details like the Senate seal on the
ceiling and marble panels designed by Lee Lawrie, the artist who
designed the bronze statue of Atlas at Rockefeller Center.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/23/us/politics/impeachment-senate-chamber-diagram.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/24/us/senate-trial-chamber-promo-image/senate-trial-chamber-promo-image-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{a-3-d-tour-of-how-the-senate-was-transformed-for-the-impeachment-trial}{%
\subsection{A 3-D Tour of How the Senate Was Transformed for the
Impeachment
Trial}\label{a-3-d-tour-of-how-the-senate-was-transformed-for-the-impeachment-trial}}

An immersive diagram of the storied chamber where President Trump's
trial is taking place --- including what you won't see in photos.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:08 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 6:08 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{democrats-seek-to-poke-holes-in-trumps-expected-defense}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{democrats-strategy-trump}{Democrats
seek to poke holes in Trump's expected
defense.}}{Democrats seek to poke holes in Trump's expected defense.}}\label{democrats-seek-to-poke-holes-in-trumps-expected-defense}}

House managers had a very clear strategy when they walked into the
Senate chambers on Thursday: Poke holes in the defenses they expect
President Trump's lawyers will try to employ when it's their turn this
week.

The White House defense team claims that impeachment cannot be valid
without a crime. So for more than an hour, Representative Jerrold Nadler
of New York methodically walked through the history of constitutional
law to preemptively assert that such a defense is wrong.

Mr. Trump's lawyers also argue in their legal brief that the president
was interested only in combating corruption in Ukraine. So the House
managers zeroed in on evidence on Thursday that shows the president was
concerned about corruption claims about former Vice President Joe Biden
and his son --- not corruption generally.

And because they expect the president's legal advisers to repeatedly
raise the Bidens when they present their defense, the House managers
spent hours debunking the accusation that the Bidens did anything
improper in Ukraine.

Taken together, Thursday's presentations by the House managers were
meant as a shield against what they expect is coming, most likely on
Saturday, when Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, and Jay Sekulow,
the president's personal lawyer, get their chance in the well of the
Senate.

Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the minority leader,
applauded the House managers during a break in the case for
``pre-empting'' the arguments from the president's team. But Mr. Sekulow
was undeterred a few minutes later.

``I am confident that whether it is Saturday, or Monday or Tuesday that
the case will be made defending the president,'' he said. ``I have no
doubt.''

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:58 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:58 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\hypertarget{pelosi-keeps-a-tight-grip-on-impeachment}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{pelosi-impeachment}{Pelosi
keeps a tight grip on
impeachment.}}{Pelosi keeps a tight grip on impeachment.}}\label{pelosi-keeps-a-tight-grip-on-impeachment}}

Speaker Nancy Pelosi's role in the impeachment of Mr. Trump may be
formally over, but by her own design, the matter is not out of her
hands.

Even in her absence from the Capitol this week, as the speaker traveled
through Poland and Israel in remembrance of the 75th anniversary of the
liberation of Auschwitz, she had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/us/politics/pelosi-trump-impeachment.html}{her
hand firmly on the tiller} of the prosecution of the president.

In many ways, Ms. Pelosi is the eighth, largely unseen manager of the
Democrats' case.

She selected the group of seven House impeachment managers from among
her closest and most loyal advisers, placing at its helm Representative
Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, a trusted protégé whom she
privately calls ``the general.''

Ms. Pelosi has dispatched her handpicked House general counsel to sit at
the table inside the Senate chamber, with the prosecutors acting as her
eyes and ears. She reviewed all the managers' written briefs before they
were filed.

And the multipronged media campaign to make the case for Mr. Trump's
removal is being run out of her office, by her communications director
and other staff.

``Look, she cares a lot about this,'' Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of
New York and the minority leader, said in a brief interview.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:12 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:12 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{galleries-draw-visitors-eager-to-watch-the-trial-unfold}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{galleries-trial-senate}{Galleries
draw visitors eager to watch the trial
unfold.}}{Galleries draw visitors eager to watch the trial unfold.}}\label{galleries-draw-visitors-eager-to-watch-the-trial-unfold}}

The presentations at the Senate impeachment trial on Thursday have been
some of the most dense yet, starting with a historical lecture about the
constitutional roots of impeachment and later delving deeply into the
details of President Trump's actions.

But that hasn't kept the public away.

The public galleries in the Senate were as full as they have been all
week, with almost 200 people listening quietly as the House managers
presented their case. The galleries no doubt included some Senate staff
members and others who were assigned to be there. But there appeared to
be plenty of regular attendees, too --- people just eager to watch a bit
of history unfold.

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:05 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 5:05 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{house-managers-use-trumps-words-as-evidence}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{house-managers-trump-evidence}{House
managers use Trump's words as
evidence.}}{House managers use Trump's words as evidence.}}\label{house-managers-use-trumps-words-as-evidence}}

Image

President Trump on Thursday at the White House.Credit...Pete Marovich
for The New York Times

President Trump is nowhere near the Capitol, but the House managers are
still using his words against him.

At several points on Thursday, the House members prosecuting the
articles of impeachment have used video clips of Mr. Trump as evidence
of his motives in pressuring Ukraine for investigations into the Bidens.

Building his case that Mr. Trump wanted Ukrainian investigations that
benefited him politically, Representative Adam B. Schiff, the lead House
manager, showed several clips, including one in which Mr. Trump referred
to the conspiracy theory that Ukraine interfered with his campaign in
2016.

``There was a lot of corruption having to do with the 2016 election
against us, and we want to get to the bottom it and it's very important
that we do,'' Mr. Trump said in the clip, his voice echoing through the
chamber.

Mr. Schiff quickly made his point: ``He's not concerned about actual
corruption cases, only matters that affect him personally.''

Later, as Mr. Schiff argued that Mr. Trump only cared about
investigations into the Bidens, he used a video clip of the president's
own words, as he discussed his interest in working with Ukraine on
corruption.

``And let me tell you something, Biden's son is corrupt. And Biden is
corrupt,'' the president said in the clip.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 4:03 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 4:03 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{democrats-make-a-strategic-decision-in-focusing-on-the-bidens-trumps-lawyer-sees-a-mistake}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{democrats-make-a-strategic-decision-in-focusing-on-the-bidens-trumps-lawyer-sees-a-mistake}{Democrats
make a strategic decision in focusing on the Bidens. Trump's lawyer sees
a
mistake.}}{Democrats make a strategic decision in focusing on the Bidens. Trump's lawyer sees a mistake.}}\label{democrats-make-a-strategic-decision-in-focusing-on-the-bidens-trumps-lawyer-sees-a-mistake}}

The House managers made a strategic decision on Thursday to focus
extensive attention on the actions of former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. and his son, Hunter Biden.

The lengthy presentation --- by Representative Sylvia R. Garcia of
Texas, one of the House managers --- was aimed at proving that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/22/us/politics/biden-ukraine-trump.html}{there
was no basis to President Trump's assertions} that the former vice
president and his son did improper things in Ukraine.

``Common sense will tell us that this allegation against Joe Biden is
false,'' Ms. Garcia told the senators.

But allies of Mr. Trump quickly pounced on the extended discussion about
the Bidens to insist that the impeachment trial should include scrutiny
of their actions, and potentially a move to call them as witnesses.

Mr. Trump's Republican defenders have long argued that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/22/us/politics/impeachment-articles-arguments.html}{the
president's demand} that Ukraine announce investigations into the Bidens
was not improper because he was merely interested in rooting out
corruption in that country.

At least one of Mr. Trump's lawyers suggested the Democrats made a
mistake in focusing on the former vice president and his son.

``They have opened the door,'' said Jay Sekulow, a personal lawyer for
Mr. Trump and a member of his impeachment legal defense team. ``It's now
relevant.''

Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri and a staunch ally of the
president, made the same point in a tweet during a break after the
presentation.

\begin{quote}
WOW, House managers make extended argument that Hunter Biden's work w/
Burisma entirely appropriate \& no conflict of interest w/ Joe Biden
getting rid of prosecutor that had jurisdiction over Burisma. If we call
witnesses, gonna need to hear from both Bidens

--- Josh Hawley (@HawleyMO)
\href{https://twitter.com/HawleyMO/status/1220441589404917762?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{January
23, 2020}
\end{quote}

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 3:29 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 3:29 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{sekulow-says-nothing-has-changed-since-the-democrats-started-their-presentation}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{sekulow-says-nothing-has-changed-since-the-democrats-started-their-presentation}{Sekulow
says `nothing has changed' since the Democrats started their
presentation.}}{Sekulow says `nothing has changed' since the Democrats started their presentation.}}\label{sekulow-says-nothing-has-changed-since-the-democrats-started-their-presentation}}

Image

Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for President Trump, arriving Thursday on Capitol
Hill.Credit...Calla Kessler/The New York Times

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/jay-sekulow-trump-impeachment.html}{Jay
Sekulow}, the president's lawyer and one of the leaders of his defense
team, declared that ``nothing has changed in the last day and a half of
their two and a half days.''

He declined to say whether the White House defense
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/an-abbreviated-weekend-trial-schedule-is-possible\#live-blog-list}{would
request any changes to the schedule on Saturday}, saying that they would
do what ``our legal team thinks is appropriate to present our case.''

During a break in the trial, Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York
and the minority leader, applauded the House managers for
``pre-empting'' arguments from the president's defense team.

Mr. Sekulow was undeterred. ``I am confident that whether it is
Saturday, or Monday or Tuesday that the case will be made defending the
president,'' he said. ``I have no doubt.''

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 3:06 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 3:06 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{republicans-and-democrats-treat-the-rule-to-stay-in-their-seats-rather-liberally}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{republicans-and-democrats-treat-the-rule-to-stay-in-their-seats-rather-liberally}{Republicans
and Democrats treat the rule to stay in their seats rather
liberally.}}{Republicans and Democrats treat the rule to stay in their seats rather liberally.}}\label{republicans-and-democrats-treat-the-rule-to-stay-in-their-seats-rather-liberally}}

The rules of the Senate trial say the senators are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/21/us/politics/senate-impeachment.html}{supposed
to be sitting} in their seats throughout the presentation. In President
Trump's trial, they are treating that rule rather liberally.

At one point Thursday morning, when Representative Jerrold Nadler of New
York finished his presentation, 19 seats on the Senate floor belonging
to a mix of Republicans and Democrats were empty, according to Peter
Baker, The New York Times's chief White House correspondent, who was
sitting in the press gallery.

Most were only vacant for a few minutes. It appeared, Mr. Baker said,
that several senators were treating the end of Mr. Nadler's presentation
--- which was followed immediately by one from a fellow House manager,
Representative Sylvia R. Garcia of New York --- as an unofficial break.

Ten minutes after the end of Mr. Nadler's presentation, 10 seats were
still empty. Five minutes after that, most of the senators had wandered
back in, and only four seats were empty.

Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, a Democratic presidential candidate,
was one of the senators who left, at 1:59 p.m. She returned 15 minutes
later, taking her seat again at 2:14 p.m.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:56 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:56 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{rand-paul-takes-a-break-from-doodling-to-silently-make-a-point}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{rand-paul-takes-a-break-from-doodling-to-silently-make-a-point}{Rand
Paul takes a break from doodling to silently make a
point.}}{Rand Paul takes a break from doodling to silently make a point.}}\label{rand-paul-takes-a-break-from-doodling-to-silently-make-a-point}}

Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky had a white legal notepad in front of him
as Thursday's impeachment trial began --- and he was busy doodling.

On the top page, Mr. Paul had created an extensive, and impressive,
doodle of the United States Capitol. Drawn with a blue ballpoint pen,
the drawing covered the entire bottom third of the paper.

At one point, Representative Sylvia Garcia of Texas, a House manager,
showed a video clip of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/07/us/politics/george-kent-impeachment-testimony.html}{George
P. Kent, a State Department official}, being
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/11/07/us/politics/george-kent-transcript.html}{asked}
whether some Republicans, like Mr. Paul, believed that what President
Trump did in Ukraine was the same as what former Vice President Joseph
R. Biden did when he tried to get a corrupt prosecutor fired.

Looking up from his doodle, Mr. Paul smiled and raised a fist with his
index finger extended, as if to say, ``Yes!'' Then, when Mr. Kent
answered by saying that what Mr. Biden did was very different than what
Mr. Trump did, Mr. Paul lowered his arm.

And he went back to his doodle.

Read more

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:42 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:42 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\hypertarget{nadler-gives-a-history-lesson-in-arguing-that-no-crime-is-needed-for-impeachment}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{nadler-gives-a-history-lesson-in-arguing-that-no-crime-is-needed-for-impeachment}{Nadler
gives a history lesson in arguing that no crime is needed for
impeachment.}}{Nadler gives a history lesson in arguing that no crime is needed for impeachment.}}\label{nadler-gives-a-history-lesson-in-arguing-that-no-crime-is-needed-for-impeachment}}

Image

Representatives Adam B. Schiff of California, left, and Jerrold Nadler
of New York led House impeachment managers through the Capitol Rotunda
on Thursday.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, began the House presentation on Thursday with
an hourlong lecture on the constitutional history of impeachment.

He insisted that the history of the Constitution makes it clear that a
criminal violation is not necessary to impeach the president. In making
the argument, he cited words from some of President Trump's key allies
in his impeachment defense:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/17/us/politics/alan-dershowitz-trump.html}{Alan
Dershowitz}, a member of the president's impeachment team; William P.
Barr, the attorney general; and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/impeachment-trial-live-01-23/senator-lindsey-graham-misses-a-clip-of-a-speech-he-made-during-clintons-trial-in-1999\#live-blog-list}{Senator
Lindsey Graham}, Republican of South Carolina.

He concluded his presentation with a forceful assertion to the senators:
``Impeachment is aimed at presidents who act as if they are above the
law, at presidents who believe their own interests are more important
than those of the nation, and thus at president who ignore right and
wrong in pursuit of their own gain.''

``Abuse. Betrayal. Corruption,'' he said. ``Here are the core offenses,
the framers feared most. The president's abuse of power, his betrayal of
the national interest, and his corruption of our elections plainly
qualified as great and dangerous offenses.''

Drawing on legal scholars and liberally quoting historical figures, Mr.
Nadler argued that the founders of the nation envisioned that
impeachment would be required for presidential abuses of power like the
misconduct the House alleged when it passed two
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/12/10/us/politics/articles-impeachment-document-pdf.html}{articles
of impeachment}.

Read more

\hypertarget{advertisement-5}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-5}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid6}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:31 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:31 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\hypertarget{an-abbreviated-weekend-trial-schedule-is-possible}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{an-abbreviated-weekend-trial-schedule-is-possible}{An
abbreviated weekend trial schedule is
possible.}}{An abbreviated weekend trial schedule is possible.}}\label{an-abbreviated-weekend-trial-schedule-is-possible}}

Image

Reporters waiting near the Senate chamber as the trial
continues.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

As senators settled in for another long day of arguments from the House
managers, there was already talk among lawmakers and their aides of a
potentially abbreviated weekend trial schedule.

Under one proposal being discussed, the Senate could convene as a court
of impeachment early on Saturday, around 10 a.m. and meet for a far
shorter session than usual. That would theoretically allow senators who
wanted to travel home --- or for Democrats running for president,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/politics/trump-impeachment-democratic-candidates.html}{to
campaign in early voting states} --- for 36 hours before the trial
resumes on Monday.

The Senate's impeachment rules normally require the trial to meet every
Monday to Saturday at 1 p.m. until a verdict is reached. That late daily
start time is meant to accommodate Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.,
who maintains a morning case schedule at the Supreme Court before
presiding over the trial. But Chief Justice Roberts does not have court
business on Saturdays.

The decision may also depend on the president's lawyers, who are
scheduled to begin their defense against the House charges on Saturday.
If they want to move the trial along as quickly as possible, they could
ask for an early start on Saturday but also that the session be allowed
to run into the evening. Or they could simply shorten their arguments.

``I suspect we'll start on Saturday, and then we'll go, probably another
day or two, but who knows,'' Jay Sekulow, one of Mr. Trump's lawyers
said Wednesday night. ``I mean we've got to make that determination,
with our team.''

Any change would require consent from both Democrats and Republicans.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/icons/t_logo_291_black.png}

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:07 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 2:07 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/catie-edmondson}{Catie
Edmondson}

\hypertarget{senator-lindsey-graham-misses-a-clip-of-a-speech-he-made-during-clintons-trial-in-1999}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{senator-lindsey-graham-misses-a-clip-of-a-speech-he-made-during-clintons-trial-in-1999}{Senator
Lindsey Graham misses a clip of a speech he made during Clinton's trial
in
1999.}}{Senator Lindsey Graham misses a clip of a speech he made during Clinton's trial in 1999.}}\label{senator-lindsey-graham-misses-a-clip-of-a-speech-he-made-during-clintons-trial-in-1999}}

Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and one of the
impeachment managers in 1999, left the Senate chamber just minutes
before House Democrats played a video of him speaking during President
Bill Clinton's trial.

In the clip, Mr. Graham gave a broad definition of a ``high crime'':
``It's just when you're using your office in a way that hurts people,
you've committed a high crime,'' he said.

One of the Republicans' talking points is that there was no crime
underlying President Trump's conduct, therefore it was not impeachable.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/20/us/politics/trump-impeachment-legal-defense.html}{That
argument is widely disputed}.

Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, who sits next to Mr.
Graham on the Senate floor, briefly patted the South Carolina
Republican's empty seat as the video began to play.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

Jan. 23, 2020, 1:48 p.m. ET

Jan. 23, 2020, 1:48 p.m. ET

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\hypertarget{the-administrations-work-goes-on-with-an-invitation-to-israels-leader}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-administrations-work-goes-on-with-an-invitation-to-israels-leader}{The
administration's work goes on, with an invitation to Israel's
leader.}}{The administration's work goes on, with an invitation to Israel's leader.}}\label{the-administrations-work-goes-on-with-an-invitation-to-israels-leader}}

Image

Vice President Mike Pence, right, meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu of Israel in Jerusalem on Thursday.Credit...Ammar Awad/Reuters

As Democrats spoke in the Senate, Vice President Mike Pence announced
that President Trump had asked him to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/23/world/middleeast/israel-peaceplan-kushner.html}{invite
to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to Washington} next week
to discuss ``regional issues, as well as the prospect of peace here in
the Holy Land.''

Mr. Pence, who is visiting Jerusalem, said at Mr. Netanyahu's request he
had also invited Benny Gantz, an opposition leader in Israel. Mr.
Netanyahu said he would ``gladly accept.''

It is another instance of the administration moving forward with
legislative and diplomatic work while the impeachment trial is going on
in the Senate.

On Wednesday, Republican senators held a ceremonial event to formally
send Mr. Trump's revised North American trade pact to his desk for his
signature.

Read more

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 21, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{accepted
    the Democratic nomination}, urging Americans to have faith that they
    could ``overcome this season of darkness.''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here's
    the latest.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
