Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Lobbying Intensifies Among
V.P. Candidates as Biden's Search Nears an End

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Dnc5wy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{lobbying-intensifies-among-vp-candidates-as-bidens-search-nears-an-end}{%
\section{Lobbying Intensifies Among V.P. Candidates as Biden's Search
Nears an
End}\label{lobbying-intensifies-among-vp-candidates-as-bidens-search-nears-an-end}}

Two women, Representative Karen Bass and Susan Rice, the former national
security adviser, are among the most formidable contenders on Joe
Biden's list.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31biden-vp1/31biden-vp1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan Martin},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander Burns} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Joseph R. Biden Jr. has entered the final stage of his
deliberations about choosing a running mate as he prepares to talk
one-on-one with the finalists next week, while Democratic leaders lobby
him furiously to elevate their allies and sink their enemies.

Mr. Biden's campaign has conducted extensive polling and focus groups
with voters on a collection of candidates and weighed an array of
factors, such as the impact of the pick in battleground states, and
whether to choose a Black woman. Aides say the announcement will come
the week before the Democratic convention in August.

Two candidates who received scant attention early in the process are now
among the leading contenders: Representative Karen Bass of California
and Susan E. Rice, the former national security adviser, according to
Democratic officials briefed on the selection process. Ms. Bass in
particular has moved rapidly toward the top of Mr. Biden's list amid an
intensive lobbying drive by her fellow House Democrats, and has
impressed the former vice-president's search committee.

Mr. Biden is said to be focused on finding a running mate he regards as
capable of advancing his priorities in governing and who can be counted
on not to stray from the urgent challenges facing the nation to pursue
their own political priorities, according to people familiar with his
thinking. His advisers would also prefer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html}{a
running mate} who would not present a rich political target for
President Trump, given that the incumbent is lagging badly in the polls
and has so far struggled to deliver credible negative attacks against
Mr. Biden.

James E. Clyburn, the third-ranking House Democrat who helped revive Mr.
Biden's campaign in South Carolina, said he had been bombarded by
supporters of several candidates.

``I've heard from the surrogates of about all the people in the race,''
said Mr. Clyburn, who did not rule out making a late, private
recommendation to Mr. Biden.

In conversations with Mr. Biden and his vetting committee, lawmakers
have recommended Ms. Bass as a consensus candidate who is well-liked
across partisan and factional lines and would be a loyal lieutenant to
him in government.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31biden-vp2/merlin_174115215_629baf9f-5619-4844-84fd-3fd39a71bad2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. Bass has reinforced that message by assuring Democratic officials
that she has no interest in seeking the presidency herself, according to
lawmakers directly familiar with the discussions. That commitment could
assuage concerns in the Biden camp that he might be overshadowed by a
running mate positioning herself to succeed him.

Ms. Bass has also waged a previously undisclosed campaign to woo
influential liberal leaders, telephoning union presidents to seek their
counsel and support.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is close with Ms. Bass, whom she named to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/us/politics/karen-bass.html}{oversee}
the recent policing reform bill, and has made her admiration clear in
private conversations, including with former President Barack Obama. Ms.
Pelosi's aides said she has not conveyed support for any one candidate,
is fond of a number of them and, in speaking with Mr. Biden's vetting
team last month, urged them to find somebody who could ensure the ticket
is victorious.

Two prominent Democrats, Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and
Kamala Harris of California, along with a handful of other women, remain
as possibilities; both lawmakers have the statewide political experience
and large national followings that Ms. Bass and Ms. Rice lack. Ms.
Warren has become something of an informal adviser to Mr. Biden on
economic issues and has won support from her party's progressive wing,
and Ms. Harris is regarded as a muscular fund-raiser with the backing of
important people in the Democratic Party's donor class.

While Mr. Biden's advisers are careful to stress that he has not ruled
out any of the major candidates, some are clearly less likely than
others to be chosen. For some of the long-shot candidates, talk has
already turned to other potential roles in a Biden administration: Gov.
Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, for instance, has expressed
interest in the job of health and human services secretary, according to
officials familiar with her thinking.

Among the other candidates Mr. Biden has looked at closely are Gov.
Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan; Representative Val Demings of Florida, who
has enlisted her home state's sizable congressional delegation to make
appeals on her behalf; and Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, who is
backed by veterans advocates.

Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois has called Mr. Biden's team to urge them
to put Ms. Duckworth, a military veteran, on the ticket. Senator Jack
Reed of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, has shared his high opinion of Ms. Duckworth with the Biden
camp, and also urged them to pick his home-state governor, Gina
Raimondo, people familiar with the conversations said. However, Mr.
Biden's vetting committee has raised questions about whether tapping Ms.
Duckworth could prompt legal challenges because she was born overseas.

There also some wild cards: Former President Bill Clinton has expressed
enthusiasm about Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, according to
Democrats familiar with his assessment.

Image

Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois is backed by influential advocates
for veterans, as well as her state's governor, J.B.
Pritzker.Credit...Erin Schaff for The New York Times

The former vice president's decision has become both enormously
consequential and highly delicate because of the unresolved question of
whether, should he win in November, he would seek re-election in four
years, when he would be nearly 82 years old. With his selection, Mr.
Biden may be effectively coronating the next Democratic presidential
nominee and charting the party's course for the next decade.

This is why some progressives are hoping he balances the ticket by
picking a more liberal running mate.

``It shouldn't be someone that just amplifies what Biden does well,''
said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York. ``It should be
somebody that brings new constituencies to the table.''

Some of his top advisers, however, are warning against tapping somebody
who would immediately begin eyeing the next Democratic primary.

``There's going to be an awful lot to do starting on Day 1, so I think
it's important to have somebody who can be focused on that task and not
running for president as soon as we finish the inauguration,'' said
Representative Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, one of Mr. Biden's campaign
chairs.

Mr. Biden's top aides have made clear the premium he places on a
trusting relationship is informed by his own experience as a vice
president --- and he will not make a nakedly political choice, a
determination made easier by the sizable advantage he enjoys over Mr.
Trump in the polls.

``The Bidens are looking for somebody as loyal to them as they were to
Barack and Michelle Obama,'' said Christine Pelosi, the daughter of the
speaker.

Image

Senator Kamala Harris of California, one of Mr. Biden's rivals in the
Democratic primary, is backed by important figures in the party's donor
class.Credit...Pete Marovich for The New York Times

Mr. Biden's campaign is angry about a
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/27/kamala-harris-biden-vp-381829}{leak
to Politico} this week that revealed that former Senator Christopher J.
Dodd, one of the leaders of Mr. Biden's search team, is uneasy with Ms.
Harris. Mr. Dodd has repeatedly indicated to allies that he believed Mr.
Biden should broaden the prospects and not focus on only well-known
possibilities.

Mr. Dodd is scarcely alone in his lack of enthusiasm for Ms. Harris,
whose own presidential campaign never matched its high expectations; she
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/29/us/politics/kamala-harris-2020.html}{dropped
out} two months before voting began.

``The thing I keep thinking about Kamala is her performance in the
primary,'' said Representative Filemon Vela of Texas, an early supporter
of Mr. Biden. Mr. Vela said his top three choices were Ms. Bass, Ms.
Rice and Ms. Duckworth --- but he said the last two would fare best in
his state.

One Democrat close to Mr. Biden's campaign said its polling indicated
that Ms. Harris has little allure with Black voters. More telling, a
Biden campaign official reached out to The New York Times, unprompted,
to say that some of the former vice president's own staff members are
not supportive of her.

California Democrats, including several in Congress, have expressed
their wariness about Ms. Harris to Mr. Biden's advisers. In some cases,
they have guided him in the direction of Ms. Bass, who is highly
regarded in her home state.

David Crane, a Democrat and former top adviser to Arnold Schwarzenegger
when he was governor of California, said he had reached out to Mr.
Biden's camp to tell them Ms. Bass was ``a good person who cares about
legislation.'' He said he conveyed his belief that she would be a far
better partner for Mr. Biden than Ms. Harris, who he said did not ``walk
her talk'' on policy.

``They've got to pick somebody who really knows how to govern,'' Mr.
Crane said, stressing what he described as Ms. Bass's gift for steering
complex legislation. ``Karen Bass knows how to do that. Kamala Harris
has never been in that position.''

Ms. Harris addressed the criticism she is receiving on Friday during a
livestream conversation for the Black Women Lead 2020 conference.
``There will be a resistance to your ambition,'' adding that the people
resisting are ``burdened by only having the capacity to see what has
always been instead of what can be.''

And Ms. Harris does have allies.

``You only need to look at her record at the local, state and federal
levels to know that she'd be a quality, experienced partner who's ready
to lead on Day 1,'' said Rusty Hicks, who also praised Ms. Bass and is
neutral in his capacity as chair of the California Democratic Party.

Image

Susan E. Rice served with Mr. Biden as national security adviser during
the Obama administration.Credit...Carolyn Kaster/Associated Press

While Ms. Rice has a close relationship with Mr. Biden, many in the
party are wary of elevating somebody who has never run for office.

Ms. Bass, too, has drawbacks. She has never been in a setting comparable
to a high-stakes debate with Vice President Mike Pence. And in private
vetting conversations, members of Mr. Biden's team have asked Ms. Bass
to explain aspects of her record on Cuba: She visited the country
multiple times in the Fidel Castro era and issued a respectful statement
when he died. Ms. Bass has said publicly that she had reconsidered those
comments.

Clearly, though, Mr. Biden is facing the most intense lobbying to choose
a Black running mate.

A small
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/us/politics/joe-biden-black-vice-president.html}{group
of strategists and activists} who have been pressing for a Black woman
recently spoke with members of the search committee, according to two
people with knowledge of the conversation. They discussed the electoral
map and how the political environment in the country had shifted
following the killing of George Floyd in police custody in May.

When given the opportunity to make a case for a specific candidate,
participants indicated their support of any of the Black women
considered, but Ms. Harris and Ms. Rice came up the most, the people
familiar with the conversation said. They noted that the meeting
unfolded before it was evident how seriously Ms. Bass was being
considered.

In the House, several Democratic lawmakers have made the case for Ms.
Bass to Mr. Biden's advisers.

Representative Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, a centrist leader of the
bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, called Ms. Bass ``a bridge-builder,''
who ``wants to figure out how to get to yes.''

Representative Ro Khanna of California, an outspoken progressive, was
equally succinct: ``She'd be a pick that every part of the Democratic
coalition would respect and be excited about.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
