Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Voting by Mail Is Popular.
So Is the False Idea That It's Ripe for Fraud.

\url{https://nyti.ms/337RJSW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Poll watch

\hypertarget{voting-by-mail-is-popular-so-is-the-false-idea-that-its-ripe-for-fraud}{%
\section{Voting by Mail Is Popular. So Is the False Idea That It's Ripe
for
Fraud.}\label{voting-by-mail-is-popular-so-is-the-false-idea-that-its-ripe-for-fraud}}

Americans overwhelmingly support increased access to mail voting, but
they also appear to be susceptible to misinformation about it.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/politics/31pollwatch-newsletter/merlin_175130793_653479fa-608b-49cc-8a20-873899b26479-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/giovanni-russonello}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/04/03/multimedia/author-giovanni-russonello/author-giovanni-russonello-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/giovanni-russonello}{Giovanni
Russonello}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Welcome to}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/poll-watch}{\emph{Poll
Watch}}\emph{, our weekly look at}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{\emph{polling
data}} \emph{and survey research on the candidates, voters and issues
that will shape the}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/2020-election}{\emph{2020
election}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/05/28/us/onpolitics-graph-blue/onpolitics-graph-blue-articleLarge.gif?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump on Thursday
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288818160389558273}{railed
against} expanding access to mail-in voting, and even
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{floated
the idea that the election could be postponed}, something he has no
legal authority to do.

Top Republicans were quick to dismiss the suggestion of putting off
Election Day --- but Democrats went further, calling it evidence that
the president would stop at nothing to throw doubt on the validity of an
election that he currently appears likely to lose.

At this moment of coronavirus-driven insecurity, where do Americans
stand on voting by mail? And how many might be persuaded, as the
president argues, that the election's very legitimacy is in doubt?

Recent polling shows that Americans now overwhelmingly support universal
access to mail-in voting. In
\href{https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/07/20/as-covid-19-cases-increase-most-americans-support-no-excuse-absentee-voting/?utm_source=AdaptiveMailer\&utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=20-07-20\%20Absentee\%20Voting\%20FT\%20HeadsUp\&org=982\&lvl=100\&ite=6671\&lea=1470843\&ctr=0\&par=1\&trk=}{national}
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-poll-biden-holds-lead-over-trump-as-coronavirus-concerns-grip-nation}{surveys}
from the past few months, all taken after Mr. Trump began attacking the
idea as dangerous, upward of six in 10 respondents have said that they
would favor making absentee voting universally available.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

But surveys also reflect how susceptible many people's opinions can be
to misinformation, when it comes to matters of fraud and vote security.
For instance, 49 percent of Americans said in an
\href{https://www.langerresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/1214a22020Election.pdf}{ABC
News/Washington Post poll} in mid-July that mail-in voting was
``vulnerable to significant levels of fraud.'' That lines up cleanly
with a
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/310586/americans-favor-voting-mail-option-november.aspx}{Gallup
poll} from April that showed 49 percent of Americans thought expanding
access to mail-in ballots would increase the prevalence of voter fraud.

This despite the fact that studies have consistently proved
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{voter
fraud to be exceedingly rare} --- including in the five states that now
conduct all their voting by mail.

Lines tend to be longer in cities and other areas with particularly high
rates of African-American and Latino voters --- meaning that it is not
always easy for people in these places to successfully cast ballots in
person.

If Mr. Trump were to successfully beat back access to absentee ballots,
proponents of voting rights worry that it could disenfranchise these
communities in particular.

Republican state legislatures throughout the country have enacted a
variety of voting restrictions since 2013, when the Supreme Court
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/26/us/supreme-court-ruling.html}{rolled
back the Voting Rights Act}. The Brennan Center for Justice, a
pro-democracy watchdog group, has determined that in the past decade, 25
states have passed laws making it harder to cast a ballot.

Amid the pandemic, those problems have often become especially acute ---
particularly in states like Wisconsin and Georgia, where voters in many
precincts during this year's primaries were forced to wait in line for
hours after Republican officials in both states resisted expanding
access to absentee voting.

In many primaries, ``the polling places were dramatically underequipped
--- there were far too few of them and there were fewer resources than
needed,'' said Wendy Weiser, who runs the democracy program at the
Brennan Center. ``We saw the problems compounded in more populous areas,
and even more in urban areas that have higher concentrations of Black
and brown voters.''

But for now, it is primarily Republicans who have internalized Mr.
Trump's arguments about the dangers of mail voting --- meaning that
they, not Democrats, may be more likely to risk voting in person in
November. The recent ABC/Post poll found that only 28 percent of Joseph
R. Biden Jr.'s supporters saw mail voting as vulnerable to substantial
fraud, whereas 78 percent of Mr. Trump's supporters did.

In a similar vein, while a slight majority of Mr. Biden's backers said
mail ballots would be their preferred method of voting this year, only
17 percent of Trump's supporters said the same.

Republican arguments about voter fraud are nothing new, and neither is
the trend of Republican worries outpacing Democrats' concerns. Four
years ago, despite evidence to the contrary, seven in 10 Trump
supporters thought that voter fraud was common, according to an
\href{https://www.langerresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/1184a62016ElectionTrackingNo-6.pdf}{ABC/Post
poll} taken on the eve of the 2016 election.

This has led some observers to wonder whether, in areas where in-person
voting during the pandemic becomes difficult or even impossible,
Trump-driven skepticism about mail voting
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/02/us/politics/republicans-mail-voting-trump.html}{could
disproportionately drive down Republican participation}.

``Maybe it's an unintended consequence of what he's saying,'' said Amber
McReynolds, who runs the
\href{https://www.voteathome.org/about/}{National Vote at Home Institute
and Coalition}, a nonpartisan group devoted to expanding access to the
ballot. ``He's assuming that his impact is on everybody, but it's
actually hurting his voters, probably. And the data shows that, because
we're seeing a decline in vote-by-mail requests among Republicans.''

``He's suppressing those that listen to him,'' she added.

Throughout the primaries, as Mr. Trump railed against the dangers of
voting by mail, Democratic requests for mail-in ballots far exceeded
Republican ones.

Forty-one states already allow all voters to vote by mail, and seven of
those send ballots to voters regardless of whether they request one,
\href{https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/research-reports/preparing-your-state-election-under-pandemic-conditions}{according
to the Brennan Center}.

Ms. Weiser said that even if the general election in November were
carried out relatively successfully, Mr. Trump's habit of questioning
the country's electoral system could have far-reaching consequences.

``His broad campaign to discredit the legitimacy of American elections,
to say they're rigged, to say that vote-by-mail is given to fraud --- it
will split America, and it will also be damaging to our elections and
our standing in the world,'' she said.

Indeed, many Americans say they are more worried about false information
being spread about elections than they are about illegitimate votes
being cast. In January, months before Mr. Trump amped up his attacks on
voting by mail, an
\href{http://maristpoll.marist.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/NPR_PBS-NewsHour_Marist-Poll_USA-Written-Summary-of-Findings_2001141253.pdf}{NPR/PBS
NewsHour/Marist College poll} presented Americans with five factors that
might pose a threat to ``keeping voting safe and accurate.''

Of those five options, Americans were most likely to say that misleading
information was the biggest threat to the democratic process.
Independent voters were particularly likely to be worried about being
misinformed.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
