Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/media}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/media}{Media}\textbar{}Esquire's Editor Is Out
in Reshuffling at Hearst Magazines

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Eudn6y}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{esquires-editor-is-out-in-reshuffling-at-hearst-magazines}{%
\section{Esquire's Editor Is Out in Reshuffling at Hearst
Magazines}\label{esquires-editor-is-out-in-reshuffling-at-hearst-magazines}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/05/23/business/23FIELDEN-01/merlin_127357631_4b65f992-72b4-441e-aea0-68a66285ecc3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/marc-tracy}{Marc Tracy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 23, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Jay Fielden is leaving his position as Esquire's editor in chief, a job
he held for three years, Hearst Magazines announced Thursday. The change
at the venerable men's publication, which started in 1933, is part of a
reshuffling under
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/business/media/hearst-harassment-troy-young.html}{Troy
Young}, who became president of the publisher in July.

``I have felt the lure of new possibilities,'' Mr. Fielden said in a
statement.

His successor has not been named. Mr. Fielden added that he would stay
at the company to complete the rollout of Esquire's new issue, which
features several stars of the next Quentin Tarantino movie on its cover,
but on Thursday morning he posted a portrait on his Instagram account
that showed him stepping out of Hearst Tower in Manhattan. Dressed in a
summery get-up and sunglasses in the photo, he carried a Gucci suitcase
and various totes.

Mr. Fielden, 49, had a tough act to follow. His immediate predecessor,
David Granger, won 17 National Magazine Awards during his 19 years in
charge. But the magazine failed to win an Ellie statuette while Mr.
Fielden held the top job.

Esquire also lost out on a high-profile story --- an investigative
article on accusations of sexual misconduct against the Hollywood
director Bryan Singer --- in a very public way during Mr. Fielden's
tenure.

Reported over the course of a year by two of the magazine's regular
contributors, Maximillian Potter and Alex French, the story went through
a thorough editing and legal-vetting process at Esquire, the writers
said, before Hearst executives ``killed'' it. It ended up published by
The Atlantic in January.

One of its authors said the loss of the story to another publication
hadn't sat well with Mr. Fielden. ``That weighed on him,'' Mr. Potter
said.

A Hearst spokeswoman said, ``We do not discuss our editorial process,
but we stand by the decision we made based on our editorial standards.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/04/fashion/esquire-magazine-jay-fielden.html}{Mr.
Fielden}, born and raised in Texas, worked at a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/06/19/fashion/mens-style/esquire-editor-jay-fielden.html}{Ralph
Lauren boutique} in San Antonio before going into journalism. He got his
training at Condé Nast, filling various posts at The New Yorker before
becoming an arts editor at Vogue and the top editor of Men's Vogue,
which folded in 2008.

In 2011, he decamped to Hearst as the editor in chief of Town \&
Country. Since taking the Esquire job, he has remained on the Town \&
Country masthead as editorial director. He will also lose that title as
part of his departure from the company.

Hearst Magazines said in a statement that Mr. Fielden would continue to
contribute to both publications. ``We thank him for his leadership and
contributions to Hearst Magazines over the years and wish him the best
with his future plans,'' the statement said.

For decades, Esquire was a bible for the sporty American male with a
taste for bourbon and literary heavyweights like Truman Capote, Raymond
Carver, John Dos Passos, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway, Norman
Mailer, David Foster Wallace and Tom Wolfe, all of whom appeared in its
pages.

Mr. Fielden set out to update the magazine's sensibility. ``There's no
cigar smoke wafting through the pages,'' he told The New York Times a
few months after taking the job, ``and the obligatory three B's are
gone, too: brown liquor, boxing and bullfighting.''

The editor circulated easily during fashion weeks in Milan and Paris
among the top designers and fashion-industry moguls whose brands
provided Esquire with much of its ad revenue.

As the editor of a men's title during the rise of sexual fluidity and
the \#MeToo movement, he navigated sexual politics in a manner different
from that of his predecessors. The last edition of Esquire's ``Women We
Love'' issue, an annual package featuring a cover photo of a scantily
clad actress, appeared under Mr. Fielden's predecessor.

That franchise has continued to appear on the Esquire website --- the
most recent installment was headlined ``25 Hot Videos From the Women We
Love'' --- but Mr. Fielden's purview did not include oversight of
Esquire.com.

With online media on the rise and print going out of style, he was left
with the challenge of managing a product in decline. Under Mr. Fielden,
the number of yearly Esquire issues dropped to eight from 10.

When Mr. Young, the Hearst Magazines president, joined the company in
2013 as the head of its digital media division, he created a structure
wherein the editors of the magazines' websites reported to him, rather
than to the editors of the individual publications. Since becoming
president, Mr. Young has tried to find editors to run both the print and
digital operations at each title.

After Mr. Young had settled into his new job, Hearst Magazines named
Jessica Pels the new editor of Cosmopolitan and Joanna Saltz the new
editor of House Beautiful. In their previous jobs, both had been in
charge of the magazines' websites; after their promotions, they were
handed responsibility for print and digital content.

In a related move at the time, Richard Dorment, the editor of Men's
Health (and a former articles editor at Esquire), was given
responsibility for that magazine's digital content.

Those editors report to Kate Lewis, the chief content officer of Hearst
Magazines. Ms. Lewis took the place of the veteran editor and publishing
executive
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/08/06/business/media/joanna-coles-troy-young-hearst.html}{Joanna
Coles}, who left the publisher shortly after Mr. Young's promotion last
summer.

The exit of Mr. Fielden seems in keeping with the earlier changes made
under Mr. Young. An editor with a fondness for literature and high
fashion may no longer be the Esquire man.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
