Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Assails Elijah
Cummings, Calling His Congressional District a Rat-Infested `Mess'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2KcZQCK}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-assails-elijah-cummings-calling-his-congressional-district-a-rat-infested-mess}{%
\section{Trump Assails Elijah Cummings, Calling His Congressional
District a Rat-Infested
`Mess'}\label{trump-assails-elijah-cummings-calling-his-congressional-district-a-rat-infested-mess}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/28/us/28DC-TRUMP/merlin_158116650_620eb039-755f-44d5-9944-ddd40dc51409-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 27, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump lashed out at a leading African-American
congressman on Saturday, calling him ``a brutal bully'' who represents a
Baltimore-based district that has become a ``disgusting, rat and rodent
infested mess'' where ``no human being would want to live.''

Mr. Trump's attack on Representative
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/17/us/politics/elijah-cummings-dead.html}{Elijah
E. Cummings}, a Democrat from Maryland and leading critic of the
president, parroted
\href{https://video.foxnews.com/v/6064589298001/\#sp=show-clips}{a
segment that aired earlier in the morning on ``Fox \& Friends.''} The
president suggested that the congressman was a hypocrite for criticizing
conditions in migrant detention centers at the southwestern border when
his own district is blighted. Mr. Trump also made a vague and
unsubstantiated insinuation of corruption.

``Rep, Elijah Cummings has been a brutal bully, shouting and screaming
at the great men \& women of Border Patrol about conditions at the
Southern Border, when actually his Baltimore district is FAR WORSE and
more dangerous,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1155073964634517505}{Mr.
Trump wrote}. ``His district is considered the Worst in the USA.''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1155073965880172544}{He
went on}: ``Cumming District is a disgusting, rat and rodent infested
mess. If he spent more time in Baltimore, maybe he could help clean up
this very dangerous \& filthy place.''

\begin{quote}
Rep, Elijah Cummings has been a brutal bully, shouting and screaming at
the great men \& women of Border Patrol about conditions at the Southern
Border, when actually his Baltimore district is FAR WORSE and more
dangerous. His district is considered the Worst in the USA......

--- Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump)
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1155073964634517505?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{July
27, 2019}
\end{quote}

Mr. Cummings responded on Twitter shortly afterward, saying that he was
a vigorous advocate for his district. ``Mr. President, I go home to my
district daily,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepCummings/status/1155132215208161281}{he
wrote}. ``Each morning, I wake up, and I go and fight for my neighbors.
It is my constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the Executive
Branch. But, it is my moral duty to fight for my constituents.''

The congressman pointed to a hearing that he held on Friday on his
effort to legislate lower drug prices, which would help his Baltimore
constituents. ``You told me then that you supported the legislation and
that you would work with me to make it happen,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepCummings/status/1155132219977031683}{Mr.
Cummings said}, still addressing the president. ``I took you at your
word.''

Mr. Trump's blasts could revive the criticism that followed his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/14/us/politics/trump-twitter-squad-congress.html}{attacks
on four first-term Democratic congresswomen of color}, who he angrily
declared should ``go back'' to their home countries, even though three
of them were born in the United States and the fourth is also an
American citizen. The president's use of racist tropes generated
enormous anger on the part of Democrats and some Republicans, leading
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/16/us/politics/trump-tweet-house-vote.html}{House
to pass a resolution, largely along party lines, condemning his
remarks}.

On Saturday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi
\href{https://mobile.twitter.com/speakerpelosi/status/1155148508296613889}{responded
on Twitter} to the president's criticism of Mr. Cummings, calling the
congressman a patriot and a ``champion in the Congress and the country
for civil rights and economic justice, a beloved leader in Baltimore,
and deeply valued colleague.''

Ms. Pelosi, who grew up in Baltimore, where her father and brother both
served as mayor, added, ``We all reject racist attacks against him and
support his steadfast leadership.''

Mayor Bernard C. Young of Baltimore also reacted angrily,
\href{https://twitter.com/mayorbcyoung/status/1155137643245690881?s=20}{saying
in a statement} that it was ``completely unacceptable'' to ``denigrate a
vibrant American City like Baltimore.'' He added, ``Mr. Trump, you are a
disappointment to the people of Baltimore, our country and the world.''

Brandon M. Scott, the City Council president, said the president was in
a better position to help than anyone else, but if he did not, then his
words would only motivate those in Baltimore to do so themselves. ``When
everyone says we're done, we come back,'' he said in an interview.
``That's Baltimore's story.''

Mr. Trump's Twitter assault came shortly after ``Fox \& Friends'' aired
a segment Saturday morning assailing Mr. Cummings for focusing on
migrants more than his own urban constituents. As video footage showed
boarded-up houses and trash-strewn areas of Baltimore, the Fox
television host said that ``living conditions at the border are better
than most areas in his district.''

The video was shot by Kimberly Klacik, a Republican strategist from
Baltimore who is African-American and was interviewed on the segment
assailing Mr. Cummings. She later rejected the idea that criticism of
him and how he represents his district was racist.

\href{https://twitter.com/kimKBaltimore/status/1155154116412366848}{She
wrote on Twitter} that ``it is so sad'' to interpret turning ``the light
currently shining on \#WestBaltimore into a race issue,'' adding that
Mr. Cummings ``could help get his district in order.''

Undaunted by the criticism, Mr. Trump decided to again go after Mr.
Cummings, the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, and
explicitly referred to race by asserting that African-Americans support
him. ``Elijah Cummings spends all of his time trying to hurt innocent
people through `Oversight,'''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1155230324374343688}{the
president tweeted late in the day}. ``He does NOTHING for his very poor,
very dangerous and very badly run district!'' He then added:
``\#BlacksForTrump2020.''

Mr. Cummings's district is 53 percent African-American, according to the
census, and includes much of Baltimore as well as vast suburban
stretches.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/12/magazine/baltimore-tragedy-crime.html}{Baltimore
has struggled with crime} in recent years, recording more murders in
2017 than any other city of at least 500,000 residents --- and more even
than New York, a vastly larger city.

Mr. Trump has a history of characterizing predominantly black areas or
African nations in terms like ``filthy.'' During his 2016 campaign, he
portrayed black communities as unremittingly grim. ``You're living in
your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/08/25/us/politics/donald-trump-black-voters.html}{he
said at one rally}, arguing that African-Americans should give him a
chance. ``What the hell do you have to lose?''

When Representative John Lewis, a Democrat from Georgia considered a
hero of the civil rights era, said he would not attend Mr. Trump's
inauguration in January 2017,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/820251730407473153?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E820251730407473153\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitframe.com\%2Fshow\%3Furl\%3Dhttps\%3A\%2F\%2Ftwitter.com\%2FrealDonaldTrump\%2Fstatus\%2F820251730407473153}{the
incoming president said} that the congressman ``should spend more time
on fixing and helping his district, which is in horrible shape and
falling apart.'' Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/11/us/politics/trump-shithole-countries.html}{disparaged
Haiti and African nations} last year using vulgar language, asking why
the United States should want immigrants from them.

Mr. Trump has denied charges that he is racist, citing in his defense
the low unemployment rates for Hispanics and African-Americans on his
watch, among other things. In recent days, he has also made a point of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/25/arts/music/asap-rocky-charged-sweden.html}{pressuring
Sweden} to release the rapper ASAP Rocky, who was charged with assault
there,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1154501344323080192}{saying},
``Sweden has let our African American Community down in the United
States.''

Mr. Cummings has been one of the president's most persistent critics in
Congress. Only two days ago, he was authorized by his oversight
committee to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/25/us/politics/personal-emails-white-house-ivanka.html}{subpoena
work-related text and emails} sent on personal accounts by White House
officials, including Mr. Trump's daughter and son-in-law.

The Maryland congressman has also assailed the administration's handling
of the border.
\href{https://www.npr.org/2019/07/18/742323488/homeland-security-chief-to-face-off-with-democrats-on-border-crisis}{At
a recent hearing}, Mr. Cummings confronted Kevin McAleenan, the acting
secretary of homeland security, about conditions for detained migrants,
sharply criticizing the secretary's contention that his department was
doing its ``level best'' to manage the situation.

``What does that mean?'' Mr. Cummings demanded. ``What does that mean
when a child is sitting in their own feces, can't take a shower? Come
on, man. What is that about? None of us would have our children in that
position. They are human beings.''

In his Twitter storm on Saturday, the president said Mr. Cummings was
distorting the reality, saying, ``the Border is clean, efficient \& well
run, just very crowded.''

Mr. Trump did not explain one of his most explosive charges, that
federal taxpayer money was somehow being stolen, nor did he detail what
involvement he was suggesting on Mr. Cummings's part.

``Why is so much money sent to the Elijah Cummings district when it is
considered the worst run and most dangerous anywhere in the United
States,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1155073965880172544}{the
president wrote}. ``No human being would want to live there. Where is
all this money going? How much is stolen? Investigate this corrupt mess
immediately!''

White House officials did not immediately respond to requests for
clarification. A spokesman for Mr. Cummings had no comment and referred
to the congressman's Twitter posts.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
