Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Matt Gaetz Is a Congressman
Liberals Love to Loathe. It's All Part of the Plan.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2UkFOgw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{matt-gaetz-is-a-congressman-liberals-love-to-loathe-its-all-part-of-the-plan}{%
\section{Matt Gaetz Is a Congressman Liberals Love to Loathe. It's All
Part of the
Plan.}\label{matt-gaetz-is-a-congressman-liberals-love-to-loathe-its-all-part-of-the-plan}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/29/us/politics/00dc-Gaetz/merlin_146584254_27b025d7-55bf-40d1-802b-2a53e7443591-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 30, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida came to Washington
in 2017 with a reputation for bipartisan deal-cutting in the State
Legislature --- then spent a year idling behind the slow-moving minivans
in the House Republican Conference like a Mustang stuck in traffic.

So he decided to go the full Trump. With a near-constant presence on the
president's favorite network and a penchant for own-the-libs
outrageousness, Mr. Gaetz has, in short order, become the lawmaker
Democrats love to loathe. It is all part of the plan.

``In a world where the body politic has the attention span at times of a
goldfish, yep, you've got to have the ability to reinvent yourself in
this game many times,'' said Mr. Gaetz, who in his second term
representing Florida's western Panhandle has emerged as one of President
Trump's fiercest and most frequent defenders on Fox News, CNN and MSNBC.

*``*I did one cable news hit during my first 10 months in Congress,'' he
said during an interview in his Capitol Hill office last week. ``Yeah.
And now it's only a couple of years later and The New York Times is
sitting in my office asking me about my life. The only thing that's
changed is a little bit of time and a whole hell of a lot of cable.''

Many Republicans in Congress stick close to Mr. Trump's feed-the-base
strategy, but few are more naturally inclined to adopt the president's
brass-knuckles brand of politics than Mr. Gaetz, 36, the ambitious son
of a former Florida State Senate president, Don Gaetz.

``Matt feeds off disruption; it's just this big adrenaline rush for
him,'' said Christian Ulvert, a Miami-based Democratic political
consultant who met Mr. Gaetz at Florida State University in the early
2000s. ``But it puts a ceiling on him, because it wears thin after a
while, and it puts so many people off.''

Steve Schale, a friend of Mr. Gaetz from Tallahassee who ran Barack
Obama's 2008 campaign in Florida, said he viewed it essentially as a
game and ``is adjusting as the rules shift.''

There are not too many rules these days. Early last year, Mr. Gaetz
brought Chuck Johnson, a right-wing activist who has questioned whether
six million Jews really died in the Holocaust, to the State of the Union
address. (This year Mr. Gaetz denounced anti-Semitism on the House
floor.)

He tried to expel two fathers who lost children to a gunman at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School from a hearing after they stood up to
object to his claim that a wall on the Mexican border would save more
lives than gun control.

He has feuded with Rick Scott, the newly elected senator and former
Republican governor of Florida, over Mr. Scott's frosty relationship
with his successor, Ron DeSantis, and Mr. Scott's decision to block the
elder Mr. Gaetz from garnering a plum university presidency.

A month ago, on the eve of testimony by Mr. Trump's former personal
lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, he dashed off a Twitter post that brought him
his biggest headlines and accusations of witness intimidation. ``Hey
@MichaelCohen212,'' he wrote. ``Do your wife \& father-in-law know about
your girlfriends? Maybe tonight would be a good time for that chat. I
wonder if she'll remain faithful when you're in prison. She's about to
learn a lot\ldots{}''

Mr. Cohen's lawyer, Lanny J. Davis, said Mr. Gaetz had peddled
``despicable lies and personal smears.'' Mr. Scott called it
``disgusting.'' The Florida Bar opened an investigation, still
continuing, into whether the tweet should affect his ability to practice
law in the state.

He deleted it and issued a follow-up claiming that ``it was NOT my
intent to threaten.'' The president loved it, and Mr. Gaetz has been
less than contrite about the incident with Mr. Trump, according to an
administration official who spoke to the president recently.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/29/us/politics/00dc-Gaetz-02/merlin_148420368_1e673e75-7614-474e-ad47-8eedcbaa6d5a-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I wanted to cast him in a bad light,'' Mr. Gaetz said of Mr. Cohen.

But Mr. Gaetz is quick to say he is no one-dimensional Trump wingman.

``I'm on the pro-science side of the Republican Party,'' he added. ``I
mean, like, marijuana can help people live better lives as medicine, the
earth is warming and nobody chooses to be gay.''

Indeed, Mr. Gaetz --- known as Baby Gaetz in Tallahassee to
differentiate him from his more powerful father --- made his reputation
back home as a serious, if combative, legislator who played an
instrumental role helping Mr. Scott, then the governor, kill efforts to
expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act.

He also joined with Democratic lawmakers to push marijuana legalization,
and he persuaded his father in 2015 to join Democrats to pass a law that
removed Florida's ban on adoptions by same-sex couples. He initially
supported Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, for president in 2016
before jumping over to Mr. Trump. His father was a Bush supporter, and
his younger sister worked on the Bush campaign as a video producer.

Mr. Gaetz is also a passionate champion of animal rights. On the day of
the Cohen tweet, he sent text messages to offer condolences to Mr.
Schale after his dog died. When he served in the Florida House, he
pushed to end greyhound racing.

``Matt has played both the hero and the villain,'' said Ryan Wiggins, a
Republican political consultant who worked on his first congressional
campaign. ``I suspect he probably enjoys the reactions he gets when he
makes people's heads explode on the national stage.''

With a promontory chin and crooked grin, Mr. Gaetz cultivates an air of
genial menace, like a netherworld Jay Leno. His email handle in college
was Gaetzofhell, a classmate recalled.

His transition to Washington was bumpy. In early 2017, at a lunch for
the incoming freshman class at the Capitol, he complained to table mates
about how tough it was to be a backbencher and railed, in four-letter
fashion, against the House Freedom Caucus --- now his allies --- for
being ``a bunch of obstructionists,'' according to a person sitting
nearby.

``I would end my days exhausted,'' Mr. Gaetz recalled. ``I was unable to
rationalize what I had done to make progress. If you can't impact an
outcome in this town you are an extra in the movie, and I do not want to
do that.''

He started tracking his Fox News appearances more carefully, and turned
up the volume on his defenses of Mr. Trump, in part, he said, to gain
more sway with the White House on local issues. He said he has used his
private access to the president to help block drilling off the Gulf
Coast --- even if Mr. Trump just wants to critique his television
appearances and mock his fashion choices.

``What are the things you can do to impact an outcome?'' he asked.
``Well, the most valuable real estate in the world lies between the
president's ears. And if I can be a good friend and ally and influencer
in calling to the president, then I can impact outcomes without having
to be a whore for special interests.''

He threw himself into the governor's campaign of Mr. DeSantis in 2018,
and sees Mr. DeSantis as the key to his post-Trump political fortunes.

The day after Mr. DeSantis was elected, Mr. Gaetz reached out to the
governor-elect's team and asked if there was any way Ashley Moody, the
new state attorney general, could be persuaded to take another job ---
to clear the way for his appointment, according to two Republican
operatives.

No way, he was told.

He is also open, friends said, to another bank-shot DeSantis
appointment. If Kansas Republicans sell Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
on a run for then Senate next year and if Mr. Trump then nominates
Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, to replace Mr. Pompeo, maybe
Mr. DeSantis would pick him to fill out Mr. Rubio's term.

When asked about that possibility, Mr. Gaetz grinned and said, ``Marco
would be a historic pick'' for the cabinet job.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
