Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Oklahoma Governor Tests Positive for
Coronavirus

\url{https://nyti.ms/30c8A3Y}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b5ff590-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b5ff591-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b5ff592-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b601ca0-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b601ca1-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6b601ca2-e393-11ea-a514-19f42751590e}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{oklahoma-governor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus}{%
\section{Oklahoma Governor Tests Positive for
Coronavirus}\label{oklahoma-governor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus}}

Gov. Kevin Stitt said he was ``pretty shocked'' to become the first
governor known to have contracted the virus. Oklahoma has averaged more
than 640 new cases per day over the past week.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/15/us/15VIRUS-OKLAHOMA-swap/15VIRUS-OKLAHOMA-swap-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/manny-fernandez}{Manny
Fernandez} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah
Mervosh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Gov. Kevin Stitt of Oklahoma announced on Wednesday that he tested
positive for the coronavirus, becoming the first governor in the United
States known to have been infected during the pandemic.

Mr. Stitt told reporters in a video news conference that he was feeling
fine and that he did not know where, when or how he had become infected.

Mr. Stitt, a Republican, said that his own infection had not prompted
him to second-guess his response to the virus, which has been less
aggressive than in many other states, including some led by fellow
Republicans. The governor has resisted issuing a statewide mask order,
and continued to do so on Wednesday. He faced criticism early on in the
outbreak, in March, when he
\href{https://twitter.com/SculptorJon/status/1239021903454453761}{posted
a photo of himself} with his children inside a crowded restaurant at a
time when many people in the state were following social distancing
protocols.

``I'm probably getting tons of texts right now from other governors
around the country,'' he said. ``I was pretty shocked that I was the
first governor to get it.''

Oklahoma has averaged more than 640 new cases per day over the past
week, more than at any point in the pandemic. On the same day the
governor announced that he had tested positive, the state reported 1,075
new coronavirus cases, surpassing the single-day record set on Tuesday.
The county that includes Oklahoma City, the state capital, has seen some
of the swiftest growth, with more than 200 daily cases on average, more
than double the rate of two weeks ago.

The positive test for Mr. Stitt represents a new frontier for America's
governors, who have been at the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/coronavirus-governors.html}{forefront
of responding to the crisis} but have so far largely avoided personally
confronting the virus.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T09:36:59.270Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

In late March, Gov. Tim Walz of Minnesota quarantined himself after
coming in contact with someone who tested positive for the virus, but
the governor
\href{https://minnesota.cbslocal.com/2020/04/06/coronavirus-in-minnesota-gov-tim-walz-no-longer-under-self-quarantine/}{did
not develop symptoms}. Gov. J.B. Pritzker of Illinois
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/coronavirus/ct-coronavirus-jb-pritzker-staff-20200511-pc2b5w74jvehfp7aisew7d42rm-story.html}{isolated
at home} in May after a senior staff member tested positive, and the
governor later
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/GovPritzker/posts/after-attending-recent-protests-and-coming-into-contact-with-someone-who-tested-/3183920535055618/}{tested
negative} after attending anti-racism protests and coming into contact
with someone who was infected. Gov. Steve Sisolak of Nevada at one point
also
\href{https://www.reviewjournal.com/local/local-nevada/nevada-gov-steve-sisolak-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-2037303/}{tested
negative}.

A number of politicians and prominent figures have had the virus, from
the
\href{https://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/politics/2020/07/07/mississippi-coronavirus-lt-gov-delbert-hosemann-tests-positive/5391032002/}{lieutenant
governor in Mississippi} to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/us/politics/trump-campaign-coronavirus-tulsa.html}{members
of President Trump's campaign staff}. At least three senators,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/us/politics/coronavirus-rand-paul.html}{Rand
Paul of Kentucky},
\href{https://www.kaine.senate.gov/press-releases/kaine-statement-on-coronavirus-antibody-test-results}{Tim
Kaine of Virginia}, and
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/05/29/bob-casey-tests-positive-coronavirus-antibodies-288843}{Bob
Casey of Pennsylvania}, have said they tested positive for the virus or
antibodies.

Mr. Stitt, 47, said he did not think that he had a serious case.

``It just kind of feels achy, like maybe the start of a little cold is
what it feels like right now, but really I feel fine,'' Mr. Stitt said
during the Zoom call while sitting at home.

He said that he received his test results at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, and
that given the timing, he did not believe his infection was linked to
President Trump's rally in Tulsa on June 20. Mr. Stitt was one of
thousands who attended the rally, where many officials and Mr. Trump's
supporters decided not to wear masks. A surge in coronavirus cases in
and around Tulsa was most likely tied to the rally, the city's top
health official said last week.

``I don't think there was any way it was at the president's rally,'' Mr.
Stitt said Wednesday.

Mr. Stitt has not been shy about not wearing a mask, at public events,
meetings and at Mr. Trump's rally. But he said he could have been
exposed anywhere at any time.

``You just never know where it is,'' he said, adding, ``I gassed up at a
gas station and we could have touched the gas pump. You start
second-guessing and wondering all those different things and how you
could have gotten it.'' The virus spreads mainly from person to person,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/22/health/cdc-coronavirus-touching-surfaces.html}{rather
than via contaminated surfaces}, according to public health experts.

Mr. Stitt's announcement set off a flurry of testing and self-isolating
among state and local officials who had been in close contact with him
or had recent meetings with him. The governor's busy, in-person schedule
in recent days will complicate contact tracing efforts. The governor
said that in talking to health officials, he was likely not contagious
before Saturday and that he did not have ``the traditional symptoms'' of
Covid-19.

On Tuesday morning, hours before he received his test results, Mr. Stitt
attended a
\href{https://tulsaworld.com/news/local/oklahoma-watch-gov-stitt-lashes-out-as-pick-to-run-land-office-is-approved-in/article_677a77e8-9b90-5344-8ad9-d3268fb1fb03.html}{special
meeting} of the state's Land Office in a conference room at the State
Capitol in Oklahoma City. He did not wear a mask.

Lt. Gov. Matt Pinnell, who serves in the governor's cabinet as secretary
of tourism and branding and who sat unmasked at a conference table
across from Mr. Stitt at the Land Office meeting, said in a Facebook
post that he was going to be tested after learning the news and was
self-isolating at home.

``No one in Oklahoma can say they don't know anyone who has had it,''
Mr. Pinnell
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/matt.pinnell.5/posts/10223594197268150}{wrote
on Facebook}. ``We all know someone now and it should absolutely be
taken seriously.''

Mr. Stitt said he was tested for the virus on Tuesday but it was unclear
what time. Asked why he had not worn a mask at the morning Land Office
meeting, Mr. Stitt said he has since notified the two people he sat
closest to, Mr. Pinnell and Blayne Arthur, the state agriculture
secretary, that he had tested positive for the virus.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Those two were probably six feet away from me,'' Mr. Stitt said.

Photographs of the meeting show Mr. Stitt sitting at the head of a
conference table, with the lieutenant governor leaning in to his
immediate left and the agriculture secretary to his right. Mr. Stitt
appears to be sitting closer than six feet to them. Paul Monies, a
reporter for Oklahoma Watch, a nonprofit online news outlet, covered the
meeting, and said it looked to him as if the governor at times could
have been closer than six feet.

Mr. Monies tested positive for the virus after covering the president's
rally in Tulsa, and had recently returned to work. He said that although
he was wearing a mask at the meeting, he is now considering getting
tested again.

``It was my first in-person meeting back from quarantine,'' Mr. Monies
said.

Oklahoma was among the first states to reopen its economy, with stores,
barbershops and salons opening back up on April 24. At the time, the
state had just 3,100 cases. New infections were holding steady --- with
an average of 94 new cases a day --- but not on a sustained decrease,
the path that is recommended by public health experts before reopening.

Restaurants, movie theaters, gyms and houses of worship were allowed to
reopen shortly afterward, on May 1. Bars --- a known source of new
infections across the country --- reopened on May 15.

By early June, there were signs of worrisome spread. On June 12,
Oklahoma surpassed more than 200 new confirmed daily cases for the first
time. A little more than a month later, the state has recorded more than
21,000 cases, and the positive test rate is about 8.5 percent, among the
highest in months.

Mr. Stitt has been slow to embrace measures recommended by public health
experts, such as issuing stay-at-home orders and mandating face
coverings in public. While he shut down businesses in the state this
spring, he is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/03/us/coronavirus-states-without-stay-home.html}{among
a handful of governors} who never issued formal orders for residents to
stay at home during the pandemic, and he only recently encouraged
Oklahomans to wear masks.

He briefly wore a face covering at a news conference on June 30, the
first time he had appeared at a news briefing wearing a mask since the
pandemic began,
\href{https://oklahoman.com/article/5665748/gov-kevin-stitt-urges-oklahomans-to-wear-masks-in-public}{The
Oklahoman reported.} ``It's this easy,'' he was quoted as saying.

On Wednesday, the governor said he had no plans to roll back the state's
reopening or to mandate the use of masks, which he said are matters of
personal responsibility and not within the purview of government. ``You
can't pick and choose what freedoms you are going to give people,'' Mr.
Stitt said. ``This is something that could be with us for the next 24
months. I don't think Americans, Oklahomans particularly, want to bunker
in place for the next 24 months.''

Mr. Stitt said he did not have a fever, was self-isolating away from his
family and would be working from home. His wife, Sarah, and their six
children have tested negative.

A member of the Cherokee Nation, Mr. Stitt is the first tribal citizen
to become governor of Oklahoma since the 1950s.

Manny Fernandez reported from Houston, and Sarah Mervosh from New York.
Ben Fenwick contributed reporting from Tulsa, Okla., and Mitch Smith
from Chicago.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
