Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus}{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Last Updated

July 21, 2020, 10:22 p.m. ET

July 21, 2020, 10:22 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{lowes-and-home-depot-to-require-customers-to-wear-masks}{%
\section{Lowe's and Home Depot to Require Customers to Wear
Masks}\label{lowes-and-home-depot-to-require-customers-to-wear-masks}}

\emph{This briefing is no longer being updated. Follow live updates}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/world/coronavirus-cases-update.html}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{home-depot-and-lowes-join-other-retailers-with-mask-mandates}{}

  Home Depot and Lowe's join other retailers with mask mandates.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{delta-tells-its-pilots-take-a-15-percent-pay-cut-and-keep-your-jobs.html}{}

  Delta tells its pilots: Take a 15 percent pay cut and keep your jobs.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{steven-mnuchin-says-congress-should-consider-forgiving-some-small-loans}{}

  Steven Mnuchin says Congress should consider forgiving some small
  loans.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{more-stimulus-should-go-to-the-hardest-hit-the-treasury-secretary-says}{}

  More stimulus should go to the hardest hit, the Treasury secretary
  says.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{waiting-for-the-world-to-go-back-to-the-beach}{}

  Waiting for the world to go back to the beach.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{two-former-federal-reserve-chairs-push-for-more-economic-relief}{}

  Two former Federal Reserve chairs push for more economic relief.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{wall-street-notches-its-third-weekly-gain-in-a-row}{}

  Wall Street notches its third weekly gain in a row.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{british-airways-retires-its-fleet-of-boeing-747s-ending-an-era}{}

  British Airways retires its fleet of Boeing 747s, ending an era.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{airbnb-was-like-a-family-then-the-layoffs-started}{}

  Airbnb was like a family. Then the layoffs started.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{home-depot-and-lowes-join-other-retailers-with-mask-mandates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{home-depot-and-lowes-join-other-retailers-with-mask-mandates}{Home
Depot and Lowe's join other retailers with mask
mandates.}}{Home Depot and Lowe's join other retailers with mask mandates.}}\label{home-depot-and-lowes-join-other-retailers-with-mask-mandates}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/08/27/business/27LOWESAPOLOGY02/merlin_142650441_044631bc-41db-4b30-a27e-3ab7f7e464c4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Lowe's} and \textbf{Home Depot} on Friday became the latest
retailers that will begin requiring all their customers to wear masks.

Lowe's said the new policy would take effect on Monday, adding that it
would supply masks to any customer who needed one.

Home Depot's mask requirement will start Wednesday. The company said
children and customers with medical conditions would not be required to
wear facial coverings.

``As a retailer offering essential goods, we have a responsibility to
our associates, customers and small businesses in communities nationwide
to help provide a safe shopping experience,'' Marvin R. Ellison, Lowe's
president and chief executive, said in a statement.

Lowe's and Home Depot joined a growing number of retailers including
\textbf{Walmart} and \textbf{Kroger} that said this week that they would
begin requiring customers to wear masks in their stores.

The announcements come as masks have become a contentious political
issue in certain parts of the country, where some political leaders have
resisted calls from health experts to mandate masks.

Companies like \textbf{Apple}, \textbf{Best Buy} and \textbf{Starbucks}
have also mandated masks in their stores.

This week, the National Retail Federation called for a nationwide mask
mandate in stores, stressing the need to protect retail employees from
infection.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-corkery}{Michael Corkery}

\hypertarget{delta-tells-its-pilots-take-a-15-percent-pay-cut-and-keep-your-jobs}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{delta-tells-its-pilots-take-a-15-percent-pay-cut-and-keep-your-jobs.html}{Delta
tells its pilots: Take a 15 percent pay cut and keep your
jobs.}}{Delta tells its pilots: Take a 15 percent pay cut and keep your jobs.}}\label{delta-tells-its-pilots-take-a-15-percent-pay-cut-and-keep-your-jobs}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/business/17markets-brf-delta/merlin_174547023_5a373de1-6a27-49f2-8c07-bd285c7f8404-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Delta Air Lines has told pilots it will not furlough them for a year if
they accept a 15 percent cut to guaranteed pay, according a memo sent to
staff on Friday.``Our approach is to spread the work of a smaller
airline among all our pilots to preserve all jobs --- that would be
unheard of in our history,'' John Laughter, senior vice president of
flight operations, said in the memo, which was reviewed by The New York
Times.

In a statement, the airline's pilots union, the Delta Master Executive
Council, accused the company of sidestepping negotiations, saying it was
``not in a position'' to consider the proposal outlined in the memo.

``Being that we are in active negotiations, having met with the company
just yesterday, we are surprised that Delta decided today to negotiate
in public directly with our pilots,'' said the union, which represents
14,000 pilots. ``It is imperative during this process to maintain an
environment that gives our negotiating committee the breathing room to
work professionally and productively.''

The federal stimulus that Congress passed in March provided airlines
with \$25 billion to pay workers as long as the companies refrained from
substantial job cuts through Sept. 30. Delta received \$5.4 billion in
mostly grants and some loans, second only to American Airlines, which
received \$5.8 billion.

American said this week that it might have to furlough as many as 20,000
workers when that federal program ends. United Airlines, which received
\$5 billion, said last week that it could cut as many as 36,000 jobs.

All three airlines have offered employees buyout and early retirement
packages to avoid deeper cuts. At Delta, 1,700 pilots have accepted
voluntary packages, though more may volunteer before a Sunday deadline.
Last month, the airline sent out legally required notices to nearly
2,600 pilots warning them that they could be furloughed in the months to
come. It was not immediately clear if those pilots would be spared under
the new proposal.

Airlines with unionized pilots and flight attendants typically guarantee
those workers a minimum number of flight hours per month. Under the
Delta proposal, the airline would reduce that minimum guarantee by up to
15 percent. Any pilot who works more than the minimum would be paid
accordingly and the airline would unwind the reduction as it adds more
flights.

Like other airlines, Delta saw a steady rise in passengers just a few
weeks ago, but that growth has stalled as coronavirus infections surged
in much of the United States. The airline this week reported that
revenue declined by 91 percent during the depth of the coronavirus
crisis in the second quarter of the year, compared with the same period
in 2019.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/niraj-chokshi}{Niraj Chokshi}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{steven-mnuchin-says-congress-should-consider-forgiving-some-small-loans}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{steven-mnuchin-says-congress-should-consider-forgiving-some-small-loans}{Steven
Mnuchin says Congress should consider forgiving some small
loans.}}{Steven Mnuchin says Congress should consider forgiving some small loans.}}\label{steven-mnuchin-says-congress-should-consider-forgiving-some-small-loans}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/business/17markets-brf-moremnuchin2/merlin_174675846_70d8090f-323c-4c56-950a-4c449c0ee80f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he thinks Congress should
consider automatically forgiving all small loans that were given to
businesses through the Paycheck Protection Program.

Businesses have been complaining about the complexity of applying to
have loans turned into grants through the small business lending program
that was created to help employers weather the coronavirus pandemic.
Some lawmakers have called for turning all loans under \$150,000 ---
about 86 percent of all loans issued --- into grants that do not need to
be repaid.

Mr. Mnuchin, testifying before the House Small Business Committee, did
not specify a threshold for automatic forgiveness, but said the concept
is ``something we should consider.'' He also said that there should be
fraud protections or a simple level of reporting to ensure that the
money was used appropriately.

Approximately \$520 billion of the \$660 billion loan program has been
allocated. Mr. Mnuchin said that he would like Congress to extend the
program so that small businesses that already received money can apply
for more. He said that the next phase of the program should focus on
businesses that have been hardest hit by the pandemic and that
applications should be prioritized based on a combination of how much
revenue a business lost and its size.

``There should be a second check available to the businesses that are
hardest hit and there should be requirements around that,'' he said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan Rappeport}

\hypertarget{more-stimulus-should-go-to-the-hardest-hit-the-treasury-secretary-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{more-stimulus-should-go-to-the-hardest-hit-the-treasury-secretary-says}{More
stimulus should go to the hardest hit, the Treasury secretary
says.}}{More stimulus should go to the hardest hit, the Treasury secretary says.}}\label{more-stimulus-should-go-to-the-hardest-hit-the-treasury-secretary-says}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/business/17markets-brf-mnuchin/merlin_173816265_53085a5c-2643-4024-ab47-2288069aae76-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Treasury Secretary
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/17/us/politics/mnuchin-congress-stimulus.html}{Steven
Mnuchin} called on Congress on Friday to work with the Trump
administration to pass additional stimulus legislation by the end of the
month as the resurgent coronavirus left the trajectory of the economic
recovery uncertain.

The request comes as millions of Americans are about to see their
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/23/business/economy/unemployment-benefits-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{expanded}
unemployment insurance benefits expire and as lawmakers
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/business/economy/congress-economy-coronavirus.html}{embark
on an intense week of negotiations} over what would be the fourth
significant bailout package since the virus shuttered large swaths of
the U.S. economy earlier this year. Lawmakers will return to Washington
on Monday to start the talks.

Democrats have already passed a \$3 trillion bill that will function as
their starting position, and Republicans are expected to detail their
own proposal next week with an eye toward keeping the price tag below
\$1 trillion. The two sides have staked out opposing positions on a
number of issues, including how to modify the Paycheck Protection
Program, liability protections for schools, businesses and frontline
medical workers, and whether to tie additional funding for schools to a
commitment to reopen in-class education this fall.

In prepared testimony before the House Committee on Small Business, Mr.
Mnuchin said that the next round of money should be targeted to
industries that have been hardest hit, as well as smaller businesses and
low- to middle-income families. Mr. Mnuchin also said that the Paycheck
Protection Program, which provides forgivable small business loans,
should be extended but with a focus on helping the restaurant, hotel,
travel and hospitality sectors.

``We are monitoring economic conditions closely,'' Mr. Mnuchin said in
his prepared remarks. ``Certain industries, such as construction, are
recovering quickly, while others, such as retail and travel, are facing
longer-term impacts and will require additional relief.''

The Treasury secretary was joined at the hearing by Jovita Carranza, the
administrator of the Small Business Administration, whose agency has
been responsible for deploying the \$660 billion paycheck program.

Lawmakers questioned both Mr. Mnuchin and Ms. Carranza about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/us/ppp-small-business-loans.html}{where
the money has gone}, why it took so long and whether it was getting to
businesses that need funds. Data released on loans over \$150,000 showed
that while much of the money has gone to restaurants, medical offices
and car dealerships, Washington lobbying shops, high-priced law firms
and special-interest groups also received big loans.

Several lawmakers suggested that the ability of small businesses to get
their loans forgiven was too complicated and could potentially leave
businesses saddled with debt.

Asked about that issue, Mr. Mnuchin said that automatically forgiving
all small loans is ``something we should consider.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan Rappeport}

\hypertarget{waiting-for-the-world-to-go-back-to-the-beach}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{waiting-for-the-world-to-go-back-to-the-beach}{Waiting
for the world to go back to the
beach.}}{Waiting for the world to go back to the beach.}}\label{waiting-for-the-world-to-go-back-to-the-beach}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/16/business/17virus-briefing-china-swim/merlin_174480408_1785d57d-dbb5-48a6-83cf-4ac99846c144-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Xingcheng, an out-of-the-way factory town on China's northeastern coast,
makes swimwear that is exported to Australia, Germany, the United States
and dozens of other countries --- in total,
\href{https://www.chinadailyhk.com/articles/121/151/137/1557484560000.html?newsId=82464}{a
quarter of the world's swimwear}, it estimates.

This year, though, when China forced its people to stay home to stop the
coronavirus, Xingcheng's production of trunks, bikinis and one-pieces
ground to a halt.

Then, just as China started getting back to work, the epidemic became a
pandemic, and the rest of the world began shutting down. Demand for
Xingcheng's swimsuits dried up. Factories and workshops that reopened
--- masks, disinfectant and temperature checks in place --- had very
little to do.

``Nobody was working. Nobody was earning money,'' said Yao Haifu, 42,
who has worked in swimwear factories in Xingcheng for more than a
decade. ``In a word? It was difficult.''

The global contraction is hitting all of China's giant export sector
hard. The country's exports were up only 0.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, even as
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/15/business/economy/china-coronavirus-economy.html}{the
overall economy rebounded} more strongly. But as Chinese industrial
towns go, Xingcheng may take longer than most to recover.

And so, with a peak season's worth of sales already largely lost,
Xingcheng's factories are scraping by an order at a time, waiting for
world governments to get a grip on the illness. For fear to abate and
economies to mend. For more people to venture
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/27/world/europe/italy-beaches-coronavirus-reopening.html}{back
into the water}.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/raymond-zhong}{Raymond Zhong}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{two-former-federal-reserve-chairs-push-for-more-economic-relief}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{two-former-federal-reserve-chairs-push-for-more-economic-relief}{Two
former Federal Reserve chairs push for more economic
relief.}}{Two former Federal Reserve chairs push for more economic relief.}}\label{two-former-federal-reserve-chairs-push-for-more-economic-relief}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/business/17vid-business-yellen-bernanke/-17vid-business-yellen-bernanke-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Two former Federal Reserve chairs, Janet L. Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke,
who fought the financial crisis in 2008, urged a congressional committee
to do more to support the economy, and said that the central bank may
need to go further on a loan program for midsize businesses and banking
regulation as the pandemic wears on.

In published
\href{https://www.brookings.edu/blog/up-front/2020/07/16/former-fed-chairs-bernanke-and-yellen-testified-on-covid-19-and-response-to-economic-crisis/}{testimony},
the former Fed officials stressed that Congress may need to provide more
support, and said that although the government's debt load should be a
long-run concern, it should not be a binding constraint in the current
crisis.

In particular, they said Congress should do more to help states, which
are seeing reduced sales tax and other revenues along with growing
costs. That could force many local government to start cutting jobs,
weighing on economic growth.

Ms. Yellen said the budget shortfall for states alone could total \$550
billion through 2022, based on one study.

``Nothing is more important for restoring economic growth than improving
public health. Investments in this area are likely to pay off many times
over,'' they said. The former officials added that ``with unemployment
still very high, enhanced unemployment insurance should be extended, and
complementary programs like food stamps should be adequately funded.''

They also said that the Fed itself may need to do more. Some of the
Fed's emergency lending efforts, like its programs that buy corporate
bonds, can succeed even if they are not heavily used because they have
reassured private investors and kicked markets back into gear, they
said. But they added that it was too early to tell whether the Fed's
Main Street loan program, which runs through banks to provide funding to
midsize businesses, is working.

The Fed's program contains strict limits on how much debt a company can
have to gain access to a loan and it also requires banks to retain a 5
percent slice of risk, while the Fed takes the other chunk.

They suggested that the Fed could consider adding a new program, similar
to funding-for-lending programs run by the Bank of England and the
European Central Bank, that subsidize banks that make loans to
qualifying borrowers.

Asked if the money the United States is printing is going to cause
inflation, Mr. Bernanke had a simple answer: ``No.''

``People said it would after 2008. They were wrong then, too,'' he said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jeanna-smialek}{Jeanna Smialek}

\hypertarget{wall-street-notches-its-third-weekly-gain-in-a-row}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{wall-street-notches-its-third-weekly-gain-in-a-row}{Wall
Street notches its third weekly gain in a
row.}}{Wall Street notches its third weekly gain in a row.}}\label{wall-street-notches-its-third-weekly-gain-in-a-row}}

Copied to clipboard.

Stocks rose on Friday in another day of volatile trading as investors
weighed more earnings reports and the uncertain prospects for a
big-ticket economic rescue package in Europe.

A rise in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{coronavirus
cases}, signs of progress in possible treatments and vaccines for
Covid-19 and a slew of corporate earnings reports are all pushing and
pulling stocks in different directions. That has made trading more
volatile lately, with key benchmarks often changing directions midday as
sentiment shifts.

Friday was no different, with stocks rising and then falling and then
rising again to end the day with a small gain.

But Wall Street has still managed to climb for the past three weeks. The
S\&P 500 rose more than 1 percent this week, and about 7 percent over
the past three weeks.

On Friday, \textbf{Netflix} was among the worst performing stocks in the
S\&P 500. Its shares fell more than 6 percent after it
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/netflix-subscriptions-earnings-sarandos.html}{forecast
a weak current quarter}, despite a surge in subscribers in the second
quarter.

But two big European firms reported quarterly earnings that lifted their
shares. The German automaker \textbf{Daimler} said a late-quarter surge
in sales helped it lose less money than expected; its shares rose more
than 4 percent. And the Swedish tech company \textbf{Ericsson} reported
a rise in 5G network sales, leading to earnings that beat expectations;
its shares gained more than 10 percent.

Preliminary results from the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment
index showed that it fell in July, as the coronavirus surged across much
of the United States. Consumers account for the bulk of economic
activity in the country and the dimming of sentiment could signal
trouble ahead for retailers and other businesses that count on spending
by Americans.

The fate of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/world/europe/Merkel-EU-summit-coronavirus-rescue-recovery-plan.html}{European
Union's proposed} coronavirus rescue plan was to be discussed by the
bloc's leaders on Friday and Saturday in Brussels. The plan, which is
projeced to cost 750 billion euros (about \$856 billion), is opposed by
a few countries --- known as the Frugal Four --- and it remains unclear
if the meeting will resolve the dispute.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kevin-granville}{Kevin Granville}
and Mohammed Hadi

\hypertarget{british-airways-retires-its-fleet-of-boeing-747s-ending-an-era}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{british-airways-retires-its-fleet-of-boeing-747s-ending-an-era}{British
Airways retires its fleet of Boeing 747s, ending an
era.}}{British Airways retires its fleet of Boeing 747s, ending an era.}}\label{british-airways-retires-its-fleet-of-boeing-747s-ending-an-era}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/17/world/17uk-747-01sub/17uk-747-01sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

British Airways will retire its fleet of Boeing 747 airplanes, the
company said on Friday, citing the travel downturn and the aircraft's
high operating costs.

The decision signaled not just the finish of a storied plane's service
with the company but also symbolized the end of an era of aviation in
which the next generation of planes was always expected to be bigger, as
well as better.

The world's first jumbo jet,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/10/travel/747-airplane-jet-pilot.html}{known
as the ``Queen of the Skies,''} the 747 revolutionized travel for the
masses, but in recent years it had fallen out of favor with a number of
airlines because of the costs.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/19/business/747-airlines-final-flight.html}{The
final commercial flight of a Boeing 747 by an American carrier} took
place at the end of 2017. But British Airways had held on, operating the
world's largest fleet of the planes, with 31 in service. A handful of
other commercial carriers still fly the 747, though their use is
expected to further dwindle in the coming years.

``It is with great sadness that we can confirm we are proposing to
retire our entire 747 fleet with immediate effect,'' British Airways
said in a statement. ``It is unlikely our magnificent `Queen of the
Skies' will ever operate commercial services for British Airways again
due to the downturn in travel caused by the Covid-19 global pandemic.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/megan-specia}{Megan Specia}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{airbnb-was-like-a-family-then-the-layoffs-started}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{airbnb-was-like-a-family-then-the-layoffs-started}{Airbnb
was like a family. Then the layoffs
started.}}{Airbnb was like a family. Then the layoffs started.}}\label{airbnb-was-like-a-family-then-the-layoffs-started}}

Copied to clipboard.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/19/business/00airbnb1/merlin_173400378_c8e2a75e-fc10-4a7b-83e3-0a448fe486e1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

On May 5, Brian Chesky, \textbf{Airbnb's} chief executive, looked into
his webcam to address thousands of his employees, tell them that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{the
coronavirus} had crushed the travel industry,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/10/technology/airbnb-hosts-coronavirus.html}{including
their home rental start-up}. Divisions would have to be cut and workers
laid off.

``I have a deep feeling of love for all of you,'' Mr. Chesky said, his
voice cracking. ``What we are about is belonging, and at the center of
belonging is love.'' Within a few hours, 1,900 employees --- a quarter
of Airbnb's work force --- were told they were out.

The moves thrust Airbnb into the center of a growing debate in Silicon
Valley: What happens when a company that has positioned itself as family
to its employees reveals that it is just a regular business with the
same capitalist concerns --- namely, survival --- as any other?

Start-ups that sell everything from mattresses to data-warehousing
software have long used ``making the world a better place''-style
mission statements to energize and motivate their workers. But as the
economic fallout from the coronavirus persists, many of those gauzy
mantras have given way to harsh realities like
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/01/technology/virus-start-ups-pummeled-layoffs-unwinding.html}{budget
cuts, layoffs and bottom lines}.

That now puts companies with a ``commitment'' culture at the highest
risk of losing what made them successful, said Ethan Mollick, an
entrepreneurship professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton
School.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/erin-griffith}{Erin Griffith}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
