Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}John Conyers to Leave
Congress Amid Harassment Claims

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ntxz2B}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{john-conyers-to-leave-congress-amid-harassment-claims}{%
\section{John Conyers to Leave Congress Amid Harassment
Claims}\label{john-conyers-to-leave-congress-amid-harassment-claims}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2017/12/06/world/06-Conyers-1/06-Conyers-1-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600-v2.jpg}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/yamiche-alcindor}{Yamiche
Alcindor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 5, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Representative John Conyers Jr., under intense pressure
to resign amid multiplying allegations that he sexually harassed former
employees, announced Tuesday that he would leave Congress immediately,
and he endorsed his son John Conyers III to succeed him.

Mr. Conyers, 88, the ``dean'' of the House and the longest-serving
African-American representative in history, acquiesced to weeks of
pressure from fellow Democrats. But by trying to keep his Detroit-area
seat in the family, he touched off a family feud between his 27-year-old
son and his great-nephew Ian Conyers, a state senator from Michigan who
also plans to run in a special House election.

In a phone interview, Ian Conyers said that his great-uncle encouraged
him to run for the seat days before deciding to step down. Now the two
younger Conyerses will most likely face off in what may become a battle
over the legacy of Mr. Conyers, considered an icon to many black people.

``I said, `Sir, if you decide that you're going to retire, give me a
heads-up because I'm going to run for your seat and keep doing the work
that you have been up to,''' Ian Conyers said. ``He said, `Absolutely.
You go for it. Run.'''

Representative Conyers held out for weeks after
\href{https://www.buzzfeed.com/paulmcleod/she-complained-that-a-powerful-congressman-harassed-her?utm_term=.mwMaK3pQX\#.tkbdl8BVp}{BuzzFeed
News published documents} last month that showed that he had settled a
sexual harassment case with an employee who said she was fired after
refusing his advances.

But by Tuesday morning, he had given in.

``I am retiring today,'' he told ``The Mildred Gaddis Show,'' a local
radio program, from a hospital in Michigan. ``I am in the process of
putting together my retirement plans.''

He continued to deny that he had harassed former employees and said he
did not know where those allegations came from.

On Tuesday morning, Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of
Texas, also announced Mr. Conyers's retirement on the House floor,
saying Mr. Conyers had informed the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan,
Republican of Wisconsin, and Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of
California and the minority leader. He also informed Gov. Rick Snyder of
Michigan.

``I think the legacy of John Conyers will speak for itself,'' Ms. Lee
said later in an interview. ``His last words were that he didn't want to
be a distraction and that he will continue to fight for jobs, justice
and peace.''

She added that Mr. Conyers's years of working on issues like voting
rights and mass incarceration ``cannot be erased.''

Mr. Conyers tried to make the same case as he endorsed his son.``My
legacy can't be compromised or diminished in any way by what we are
going through now,'' he said during the radio interview. ``This, too,
shall pass. My legacy will continue through my children.''

John Conyers III, who has not held elected office before, was cited on
suspicion of
\href{http://www.mlive.com/news/detroit/index.ssf/2010/12/john_conyers_iii_previously_bu.html}{speeding
in his father's congressional vehicle} in 2010, according to The Detroit
Free Press. His father reimbursed the Treasury Department more than
\$5,600 for the commandeering of a government vehicle for personal use.
The younger Conyers also released a rap song, ``Rich Glorious,'' and
describes himself as ``a partner at Detroit's first minority-run hedge
fund.''

He \href{https://twitter.com/MRCONYERS/status/938194034979430410}{posted
on Twitter on Tuesday evening} that he had not concluded whether he
would run for his father's seat, and instead said he would ``come to a
decision by the new year.'' He thanked his father for supporting him,
and said he would take time to talk to people in the district about the
race.

``It has been an honor to share his generosity and love with the world,
the people of Detroit and the cause of civil rights nationwide,'' John
Conyers III said of his father. ``It is also an honor that my father
endorses me as his successor in his congressional seat.''

The retiring congressman took his House seat in 1965, the last sitting
lawmaker to help enact the Great Society programs conceived by President
Lyndon B. Johnson. But Mr. Conyers's exit has been ignominious. He
stepped aside as the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee last month
in the face of swirling allegations of sexual impropriety, then watched
as one Democrat after another called for his resignation.

Mr. Conyers, however, remained protective of his time in Congress. ``I
am very proud of the fact that I am the dean of the Congress,'' he said
on Tuesday. He appreciated the ``the incredible, undiminished support''
that he had received from his state and the country, he added.

He also did not waver from his stance that he did nothing wrong and
called the accusations against him false. ``Whatever they are, they are
not accurate,'' he said. ``They are not true. I cannot explain where
they came from.''

Mr. Conyers said the allegations were just part of life as a lawmaker.

``This goes with the issue of politics, the game of politics which we
are in,'' he said. ``We take what happens. We deal with it. We pass on
and move on forward as we keep going trying to make as much as we can of
this tremendous opportunity that has been given to me for so long.''

Mr. Ryan and Ms. Pelosi had each said Mr. Conyers should resign after a
woman who settled a sexual harassment claim against him said on
television that he had ``violated'' her body, repeatedly propositioned
her for sex and asked her to touch his genitals. Other former staff
members
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/28/us/politics/conyers-sexual-harassment-democrats-pelosi.html}{have
since come forward} to say he harassed them or behaved inappropriately.

Ms. Pelosi, in a statement on Tuesday, greeted Mr. Conyers's
announcement unsentimentally.

``Congressman Conyers has served in the Congress for more than five
decades and shaped some of the most consequential legislation of the
last half-century,'' she said. ``But no matter how great the legacy, it
is no license to harass or discriminate. The brave women who came
forward were owed the justice of this announcement.''

Ian Conyers said that despite the accusations, he believed that Michigan
voters would reward his family's work in politics by electing him.

His great-uncle ``still enjoys healthy support in our district,'' he
said.

He added, ``People are ready to support our dean and to support our
family as we continue to fight, as we have for leading up to a century,
for people from Southeast Michigan.''

The decision by Representative John Conyers Jr. came as several other
lawmakers face allegations of inappropriate behavior.

Representative Joe Barton, Republican of Texas and the most senior House
member for his state delegation, announced last week in an interview
with The Dallas Morning News that he would not seek re-election after
sexually suggestive online messages
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/11/22/us/politics/joe-barton-explicit-photo-twitter.html}{that
he sent to a constituent came to light}.

Representative Blake Farenthold, Republican of Texas, is facing pressure
after it was revealed last week that he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/12/01/us/politics/farenthold-sexual-harassement-settlement-taxpayers-congress.html}{used
\$84,000 in taxpayer funds} to settle a sexual harassment claim with
Lauren Greene, his former communications director. She accused him of
regularly making comments to gauge her interest in a sexual
relationship, including saying he was having ``sexual fantasies'' about
her.

And last week, an Ohio Army veteran became the fifth woman to accuse
Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, of inappropriate touching.
Senior House Democrats have also begun calling for Mr. Franken to
resign.

Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina and a member
of the House leadership, hinted at a double standard in the intense
pressure Mr. Conyers faced.

``I'm a little bit interested, though, in why the speaker of the House
called for his resignation and had been radio silent on Blake
Farenthold,'' he said. ``His settlement was three times what Conyers's
was. He's accused of the same thing. And the speaker has not said a
word. What is the difference?''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
