Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/realestate}{Real
Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}Hillsdale, N.J.: The
`Goldilocks' of Pascack Valley

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hqmypE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Living in

\hypertarget{hillsdale-nj-the-goldilocks-of-pascack-valley}{%
\section{Hillsdale, N.J.: The `Goldilocks' of Pascack
Valley}\label{hillsdale-nj-the-goldilocks-of-pascack-valley}}

The Bergen County borough strikes a balance between its immediate
neighbors: It's not too busy or quiet, too big or small, too cheap or
expensive.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/slideshow/2020/07/22/realestate/living-in-hillsdale-nj.html}{}

\hypertarget{living-in--hillsdale-nj}{%
\subsection{Living In ... Hillsdale,
N.J.}\label{living-in--hillsdale-nj}}

10 Photos

View Slide Show â€º

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/22/realestate/22LIVING-HILLSDALE-slide-5TQA/22LIVING-HILLSDALE-slide-5TQA-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Laura Moss for The New York Times

By Jay Levin

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

With a baby starting to crawl and their Upper East Side rental feeling
cramped, Yelizaveta and Dan Friedman set their sights on Mr. Friedman's
native Bergen County, N.J. After looking at homes in Ridgewood and Glen
Rock, they settled on a more northerly suburb, Hillsdale.

``The town checked a lot of boxes for us,'' said Mr. Friedman, 39, an
architect in Manhattan. (Ms. Friedman, 38, works in information
technology for an arts organization.) ``Good schools, more property for
your money, and lots of parks and green space.''

In 2017, the Friedmans paid \$630,000 for a four-bedroom house on a
third of an acre in what real estate agents call the Tandy and Allen
section. Tandy and Allen were midcentury developers who created a
subdivision of 200 ranch-style houses with such distinctive touches as a
living space above the garage and dual-sided fireplaces between the
dining and living rooms. The Friedmans' ranch came with a stream
bordering the backyard, a magnet for wildlife.

1/2 mile

N.J. TRANSIT

GARDEN STATE PKWY.

BERGEN COUNTY

Woodcliff

Lake

Hillsdale

Pascack Brook

Demarest Farms

ELL RD.

BROADWAY

HILLSDALE AVE.

Hillsdale station

N.Y.

PA.

Westwood

Hillsdale

BERGEN

New

York

City

New JERSEY

N.J.

By The New York Times

Now the parents of two, the couple have settled in and Mr. Friedman
recently joined the municipal planning board. Their experience during
the pandemic has validated their decision to move to Hillsdale.

``Especially working from home now, we're taking a lot of walks in the
area,'' Mr. Friedman said. ``This really is a welcoming place, with a
lot of friendly people --- and a lot of young people coming in.''

Many New Jersey residents know the borough of 10,500 for Demarest Farms,
which has apple and pumpkin picking in the autumn and, during this
summer of quarantine, drive-in movies in its parking lot. Another
Hillsdale attraction is Dolores Santucci, 93, who sells hot dogs and
sausages from a sidewalk pushcart in front of her son's time-warp Karl
Ehmer pork store, an anchor of the compact downtown. After taking
several weeks off, the Hot Dog Lady, as the Record newspaper calls her,
donned a face shield and was back slinging wieners.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/realestate/22LIVING-HILLSDALE-slide-KXWV/22LIVING-HILLSDALE-slide-KXWV-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Nichol DeGruccio, a sales associate with Coldwell Banker Residential
Brokerage in Hillsdale, said the borough, which has rail and bus
service, is seeing a surge of interest from pandemic-weary New Yorkers.
``Inventory remains low, because sellers have been sitting on the
sidelines waiting for things to quote-unquote get back to normal,'' she
said, adding that she has seen bidding wars.

Ms. DeGruccio calls Hillsdale the ``Goldilocks'' of Bergen County's
Pascack Valley: ``not too big, not too small, not too expensive, not too
cheap, not too busy, not too boring.''

Comparing Hillsdale with two of its immediate neighbors bears out that
description. Westwood, whose heavily trafficked downtown is within
walking distance for some Hillsdale residents, is the valley's retail
hub; bucolic, upscale Woodcliff Lake lacks a central business district
and even a library. Hillsdale, three miles square, occupies the middle
ground.

That appealed to Seth D. Griep, a 42-year-old lawyer, and his husband,
Thomas Vetter, 30, who works for a fence company. Previously high-rise
dwellers in the county seat, Hackensack, where Mr. Griep's job is based,
the couple bought a four-bedroom, nearly century-old expanded Cape Cod
on a quarter-acre in 2018, paying \$415,000. Mr. Griep jokingly calls it
``the Hillsdale lodge,'' because of the neighborhood's
off-the-beaten-track ambience and quiet streets, ideal for jogging and
biking.

``But one of the reasons we moved here,'' he said, was the proximity to
the ``town center of Westwood and their fantastic selection of
restaurants.''

Image

59 DWIGHT AVENUE \textbar{} A four-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bathroom
house, built in 1956 on 0.23 acres, listed for \$744,000.
201-930-8820Credit...Laura Moss for The New York Times

\hypertarget{what-youll-find}{%
\subsection{What You'll Find}\label{what-youll-find}}

Twenty-five miles from Times Square and convenient to the Garden State
Parkway, which cuts through its western end, Hillsdale is primarily a
community of well-kept single-family homes on spacious lots. Colonials,
ranches and split-levels are in abundance, and there is a smattering of
condos. Neighborhoods are verdant and most lack sidewalks, lending a
countrified air.

Broadway and Hillsdale Avenue intersect at the borough center, which
features the 1869 train station, a manicured veterans' memorial and a
mom-and-pop retail cluster of the basic variety: deli, bagels, hardware,
salons and such.

``From what I gather talking to real estate agents, people come to
Hillsdale because they like the schools and the small-town feel,'' said
John Ruocco, the mayor. But that small-town vibe, he added, ``is a
double-edged sword, because our downtown is quaint, but old. Some
millennials might think, `Gee, can't you change the facades of the
buildings?'''

For now, the local government is tending to the industrial zone between
Pascack Brook and the railroad tracks, a few blocks from downtown. Last
year, 11 acres were declared in need of redevelopment. Mixed-use is
envisioned, with some apartments satisfying the borough's state-mandated
affordable-housing requirements, Mr. Ruocco said.

Image

300 WIERIMUS ROAD \textbar{} A five-bedroom, three-bathroom house, built
in 1907 on 1.1 acres, listed for \$669,000. 201-930-8820Credit...Laura
Moss for The New York Times

\hypertarget{what-youll-pay}{%
\subsection{What You'll Pay}\label{what-youll-pay}}

From July 1, 2019, to June 30, 2020, the median sale price of a
single-family house in Hillsdale was \$514,500, based on 96
transactions, according to the \href{http://www.njmls.com/}{New Jersey
Multiple Listing Service}. During the same period a year earlier, 107
single-family houses sold at a median price of \$477,000.

On July 15, the listing service's website showed 30 single-family houses
available, priced from \$375,000 to \$929,000. At the low end, a
three-bedroom, two-bathroom, 1940s Cape Cod on Hopkins Street was listed
for \$464,000, with annual property taxes of \$10,725. At the high end,
sitting on a half-acre on Royal Park Terrace --- in a neighborhood west
of the Garden State Parkway that has some of the borough's largest
properties --- was an updated four-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bathroom
split-level listed for \$899,000, with taxes of \$17,295.

Image

352 PIERMONT AVENUE \textbar{} A five-bedroom, three-bathroom house,
built in 1960 on 0.22 acres, listed for \$575,000.
201-930-8820Credit...Laura Moss for The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-vibe}{%
\subsection{The Vibe}\label{the-vibe}}

Annual events like a children's fishing derby --- canceled this year
because of the pandemic --- fall festival, Halloween parade and apple
gathering at the Demarest Farms orchard make Hillsdale decidedly
family-friendly. Upstairs at the train station, hobbyists exhibit model
railroads. Summertime finds many children at the borough's swim club
(although this year the complex remains closed).

The borough's dining scene, not as large as Westwood's or Ridgewood's,
skews Italian: Osso Buco, Domani and Della Cucina all have alfresco
seating. There is also Matsu, a Japanese bistro; Rockin' Roots, a
plant-based cafe and juice bar; and the Cornerstone, a casual spot with
a bar menu.

\hypertarget{the-schools}{%
\subsection{The Schools}\label{the-schools}}

The Hillsdale public school district has two elementary schools and a
middle school for grades five through eight. The district's racial and
ethnic composition is approximately three-quarters white, 14 percent
Hispanic, 8 percent Asian and 1 percent Black.

Students advance to Pascack Valley High School on Piermont Avenue, which
enrolls about 1,200 and also serves neighboring River Vale. Average SAT
scores in 2018-19 were 570 in reading and writing and 578 in math,
compared with 539 and 541 statewide. The class of 2019 had a
near-perfect graduation rate, and 90.4 percent enrolled in postsecondary
education.

In a much-debated move prompted by this spring's civil rights
demonstrations, the high school district's Board of Education dropped
``Indians'' as the nickname and mascot of Pascack Valley High School and
``Cowboys'' as the nickname and mascot of its other high school, Pascack
Hills.

Image

Magnolia Avenue, near downtown, has some of the borough's older
homes.Credit...Laura Moss for The New York Times

\hypertarget{the-commute}{%
\subsection{The Commute}\label{the-commute}}

The train ride to Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan takes 60 to 70
minutes on New Jersey Transit's Pascack Valley Line, including the
transfer at Secaucus; the fare is \$9.75 one way or \$298 monthly. An
annual permit for the commuter parking lot costs \$170.

The private Rockland Coaches bus company has two Hillsdale routes.
Getting to the Port Authority terminal takes about an hour; fares are
\$8.85 or \$9.45 one way (\$145.95 or \$156.65 for 20 trips). Some
Hillsdale commuters take New Jersey Transit's No. 165T bus from
Westwood; the fare is \$7 one way, \$199 monthly.

\hypertarget{the-history}{%
\subsection{The History}\label{the-history}}

The sandstone farmhouse built in 1767 by Garret Durie, a blacksmith ---
still standing, on Ell Road --- was plundered by Continental and British
troops during the Revolutionary War.

In the mid-1800s, the borough's citizenry appropriated the
pastoral-sounding moniker Hillsdale from the name of the local
schoolhouse. Originally part of Washington Township, Hillsdale became a
township in 1898 and was reincorporated as a borough in 1923.

For weekly email updates on residential real estate news,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/realestate/}{sign up
here}. Follow us on Twitter:
\href{https://twitter.com/nytrealestate}{@nytrealestate}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
