Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`Do Us a Favor': Call Shows
Trump's Interest in Using U.S. Power for His Gain

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ndGmpL}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{do-us-a-favor-call-shows-trumps-interest-in-using-us-power-for-his-gain}{%
\section{`Do Us a Favor': Call Shows Trump's Interest in Using U.S.
Power for His
Gain}\label{do-us-a-favor-call-shows-trumps-interest-in-using-us-power-for-his-gain}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/25/us/politics/25dc-call1-sub2/merlin_161490147_456d4c7a-c150-413c-ad5d-796a4dacdb7c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 25, 2019Updated Oct. 8, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- It did not take long for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/us/politics/sondland-trump-ukraine-impeach.html}{President
Trump} to see an opening during his July 25 call with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/us/politics/sondland-trump-ukraine-impeach.html}{Volodymyr
Zelensky}, the young new president of Ukraine.

Just after 9 a.m. in Washington, Mr. Zelensky was heaping praise on the
American president for bragging about helping
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/08/us/politics/sondland-trump-ukraine-impeach.html}{Ukraine}
in its yearslong war with Russian-backed separatists. ``You are
absolutely right. Not 100 percent, but actually 1,000 percent,'' Mr.
Zelensky gushed, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/25/us/politics/trump-ukraine-transcript.html}{a
reconstructed transcript of the call} the White House released on
Wednesday.

When Mr. Zelensky said Ukraine was almost ready to purchase American
Javelin anti-tank missiles so it could better repel armored assaults by
Russian-supported fighters, Mr. Trump pounced.

``I would like you to do us a favor though,'' Mr. Trump responded,
beginning a series of pointed requests. The president pressed Mr.
Zelensky to use the help of Attorney General William P. Barr in opening
an investigation of a company involved in the beginnings of the F.B.I.
inquiry of Russia's 2016 election interference. He also wanted a
corruption investigation connected to former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr., a Democratic rival.

Both held the potential to benefit Mr. Trump politically. And in case
Mr. Zelensky needed reminding, Mr. Trump was quick to point out that
``the United States has been very, very good to Ukraine.''

Mr. Trump's suggestion that American law enforcement be directly
involved and in contact with Ukraine's government marks the first
evidence that the president personally sought to harness the power of
the United States government to further a political investigation.

The exchange, revealed in a declassified, five-page ``memorandum of
telephone conversation,'' prompted an unidentified whistle-blower to
accuse the president of a quid pro quo, trading a promise of foreign
assistance for help in legitimizing an unsubstantiated conspiracy theory
and gathering dirt on a political rival.

Mr. Trump insisted on Wednesday that the reconstructed transcript
offered no evidence that he pressured Mr. Zelensky. Questioned by
reporters before the two met at the United Nations, Mr. Zelensky said
that ``we spoke about many things and so I think --- you read it ---
that nobody pushed me.''

Mr. Trump jumped in: ``In other words, no pressure.''

But critics seized on the conversation as proof that the president
violated his oath of office by coercing another world leader into
supporting his personal political agenda.

The document provided a rare opportunity to review a private
conversation between the United States president and another leader.

It included a note cautioning that it was ``not a verbatim transcript''
but was based on ``notes and recollections of Situation Room duty
officers'' and national security staff. Voice recognition software was
also used in preparing the document, which included long, direct
quotations, senior administration officials said.

An American official translated Mr. Zelensky's statements into English,
officials said. The document included three ellipses indicating that
part of Mr. Trump's comments may be missing, though it is unclear how
much was left out. Administration officials said the ellipses indicated
when Mr. Trump trailed off or was inaudible.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The release of the conversation's details marked a culmination of an
extraordinary series of revelations that began in recent weeks with the
whistle-blower's private expressions of concern about Mr. Trump's
actions and prompted Democrats in Congress to officially
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/24/us/politics/democrats-impeachment-trump.html}{begin
an impeachment inquiry}.

And unlike most Washington memos, Wednesday's document was written like
a movie script.

``There is a lot of talk about Biden's son, that Biden stopped the
prosecution, and a lot of people want to find out about that,'' Mr.
Trump said to Mr. Zelensky, referring to unfounded allegations that the
former vice president tried in 2015 to stop a prosecution of a company
that his son worked for at the time.

``So whatever you can do with the attorney general would be great,'' the
president said, referring to his desire that Mr. Zelensky should be in
touch with both Mr. Barr and the president's personal lawyer Rudolph W.
Giuliani.

Mr. Zelensky's response appeared to reassure Mr. Trump. Mr. Zelensky
said that since his party recently won an absolute majority in
parliament, he would have no problem ensuring that Ukraine's new top
prosecutor would conduct the investigations that Mr. Trump wanted.

``The next prosecutor general will be 100 percent my person, my
candidate,'' Mr. Zelensky assured the president. ``He or she will look
into the situation.''

Mr. Trump specifically asked his Ukrainian counterpart to look into the
unsubstantiated theory pushed by Mr. Giuliani holding that Ukrainians
had some role in the emails stolen from the Democratic National
Committee.

``I would like to have the attorney general call you or your people and
I would like you to get to the bottom of that,'' Mr. Trump said on the
call, which took place a day after the special counsel, Robert S.
Mueller III, testified to lawmakers about his report on Russia's
election sabotage and the president's efforts to impede the inquiry.

Mr. Trump told Mr. Zelensky that Mr. Mueller had delivered an
``incompetent performance'' and again pressed the Ukrainian president to
pursue investigations for him. ``Whatever you can do, it's very
important that you do it, if that's possible.''

The Justice Department said Wednesday that Mr. Barr was unaware that Mr.
Trump had told Mr. Zelensky that the attorney general would contact him.
The department said that Mr. Barr had never spoken with Mr. Trump about
working with Ukraine to investigate anything related to the Bidens and
that he had never spoken with Mr. Giuliani about ``anything related to
Ukraine.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/09/25/us/politics/25dc-call2-sub/merlin_160496304_e7850113-30ee-45bf-829f-71f5bd1d2b07-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Trump's call with Mr. Zelensky took place on a sunny day just before
the president made the short trip to the Pentagon for the ceremonial
swearing-in of Mark T. Esper, his new defense secretary. Later, the
White House released an anodyne statement noting that the two leaders
discussed ``ways to strengthen the relationship between the United
States and Ukraine, including energy and economic cooperation.''

The president's mentions of Mr. Barr and Mr. Giuliani were the most
striking parts of a half-hour conversation in which the two men
discussed a series of issues.

The president and Mr. Giuliani have long pushed for Ukrainian officials
to examine whether there was any improper overlap between Mr. Biden's
dealings with Ukraine while in office and his son's position on the
board of a Ukrainian energy company.

As vice president, Mr. Biden embraced his role as the Obama
administration's leader in pressing Ukraine's notoriously corrupt
government to clean up its act. He once publicly threatened to withhold
\$1 billion in United States loan guarantees if Ukraine's leaders did
not dismiss a prosecutor accused of ignoring corruption.

Mr. Giuliani said in an interview that Mr. Trump would have been
shirking his duty to enforce the laws of the United States had he not
asked the Ukrainian government to pursue the allegations against Mr.
Biden and his son. ``The only person that can raise that is the
president of the United States,'' he said. ``The president of Ukraine is
not going to take a call from the head of the F.B.I.''

There was no explicit reference during the call to \$391 million in
military assistance to Ukraine that Mr. Trump had told Mick Mulvaney,
the acting White House chief of staff, to put a hold on several days
before the call took place.

In the reconstructed transcript of the call, Mr. Trump complained to Mr.
Zelensky that the United States spends more to help Ukraine than
European countries, citing specifically the lack of action by Angela
Merkel, Germany's chancellor.

``When I was speaking to Angela Merkel, she talks Ukraine, but she
doesn't do anything,'' Mr. Trump said.

Mr. Zelensky repeatedly lavished praise on Mr. Trump, employing a
strategy of ego-stroking that world leaders often use with the
president. He called Mr. Trump a ``great teacher'' for draining ``the
swamp'' of corrupt officials and thanked Mr. Trump for revealing to him
that his country's ambassador to the United States was ``a bad
ambassador.''

``She admired the previous president and she was on his side,'' Mr.
Zelensky said. ``She would not accept me as the new president well
enough.''

Mr. Trump replied: ``Well, she's going to go through some things,'' but
did not elaborate on what that meant. Near the end of the call, Mr.
Trump invited Mr. Zelensky to visit the White House and Mr. Zelensky
said he is ``looking forward to our meeting.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
