Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Justice Dept. to Open Investigation
Into Kenosha Shooting

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Qmw9m6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a7969050-f52c-11ea-98f9-eba1273f4363\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/black-police-chiefs-reform.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a7969051-f52c-11ea-98f9-eba1273f4363\&variant=undefined}{Black
  Police Chiefs}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a7969052-f52c-11ea-98f9-eba1273f4363\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a7969053-f52c-11ea-98f9-eba1273f4363\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=a7969054-f52c-11ea-98f9-eba1273f4363\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{justice-dept-to-open-investigation-into-kenosha-shooting}{%
\section{Justice Dept. to Open Investigation Into Kenosha
Shooting}\label{justice-dept-to-open-investigation-into-kenosha-shooting}}

Protesters have poured into the Wisconsin city's streets after the
shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black father who was partially paralyzed
after a white officer fired at him in front of his children.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/us/26hpkenosha/26hpkenosha-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/09/multimedia/author-julie-bosman/author-julie-bosman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-sarah-mervosh/author-sarah-mervosh-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{Julie
Bosman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sarah-mervosh}{Sarah
Mervosh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 26, 2020Updated Sept. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

KENOSHA, Wis. --- The Justice Department on Wednesday announced a civil
rights investigation into the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/salt-lake-city-autism-shooting.html}{police
shooting} of a Black man in Kenosha, Wis., as new details emerged in the
case, a white teenager who confronted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/upshot/trump-democratic-cities.html}{demonstrators}
was arrested in connection with two deaths, and protests spread to
athletes in three pro sports leagues.

Protesters have poured into Kenosha's streets to decry the shooting of
Jacob Blake, a Black father who was partially paralyzed after a white
officer fired at him in front of his children. The authorities released
new details of the case on Wednesday that gave a clearer picture of why
police officers confronted Mr. Blake, who they said had a knife.

Amid the ire over the shooting of Mr. Blake, some in Kenosha have
torched buildings, and the authorities have fired tear gas in an effort
to clear the streets. Counterprotesters have also emerged, and gunfire
broke out along one crowded, dark street late Tuesday, sending
bystanders fleeing into parking lots and screaming in terror.

The violence that broke out came as demonstrators scuffled with a group
of men carrying long guns who said they were protecting the area from
looting. The authorities were investigating whether the white teenager
who was arrested on Wednesday, identified as Kyle Rittenhouse, 17, was
part of a vigilante group. His social media accounts appeared to show an
intense affinity for guns, law enforcement and
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/ellievhall/kenosha-suspect-kyle-rittenhouse-trump-rally}{President
Trump}. (The Trump campaign said Mr. Rittenhouse ``had nothing to do''
with the president's re-election effort.)

The fatal shooting followed a tense night of standoffs between the
police and demonstrators and escalated a situation that had drawn the
attention of Mr. Trump, who is in the third day of the Republican
National Convention and has sought to portray Democratic cities as rife
with violence and crime.

Protests over the shooting of Mr. Blake also expanded to sports, where
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/sports/basketball/nba-boycott-bucks-magic-blake-shooting.html}{N.B.A.
postponed multiple playoff games} on Wednesday after the Milwaukee Bucks
boycotted their matchup with the Orlando Magic. The athletes' protests
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/sports/basketball/nba-boycott-bucks-magic-blake-shooting.html}{quickly
spread}to Major League Baseball, the W.N.B.A., Major League Soccer and
the professional tennis tour.

Mr. Rittenhouse was arrested in Antioch, Ill., and faces a charge of
first-degree intentional homicide, according to a court document from
Lake County, Ill. Antioch is about 30 minutes southwest of Kenosha, just
over the Illinois line. Two men, a 26-year-old and a 36-year-old from
Kenosha County, were killed, the authorities said, and a third person
was injured.

Kenosha has become the latest flashpoint in a summer of unrest that
began with the police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and set off
soul searching across the country as well as protests, some of which
have turned violent.

Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1298671451030073344?s=20}{tweeted
on Wednesday} that he planned to deploy federal law enforcement
officials to Kenosha and that Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, had agreed to
the help.

``I will be sending federal law enforcement and the National Guard to
Kenosha, WI to restore LAW and ORDER!'' he wrote on Twitter. He also
wrote: ``We will NOT stand for looting, arson, violence, and lawlessness
on American streets,''

Mr. Trump is fighting for support in swing states like Wisconsin, which
had surprised many in 2016 by giving him its electoral votes.

Mr. Trump's campaign also issued a statement distancing itself from Mr.
Rittenhouse, saying he had ``nothing to do with our campaign.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/us/26WISCONSIN-natlguard/merlin_176187774_197b2e73-0af1-413b-8f91-97cd084cb5cc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Evers on Wednesday announced that his office was sending more
members of the Wisconsin National Guard to Kenosha --- the numbers have
grown to 500 from about 125 earlier in the week --- as protests have
intensified. On Tuesday, Mr. Evers declined federal assistance from the
White House, his office said, but additional conversations took place on
Wednesday.

It was uncertain what federal assistance Mr. Evers had been offered and
details of any federal involvement were uncertain late Wednesday, though
an official in Mr. Evers's office indicated that some level of help had
been accepted.

``The federal government is planning to assist in facilitating
conversations with other state partners and provide F.B.I. support to
our state response,'' Britt Cudaback, Mr. Evers's deputy communications
director, said in a written statement.

Officials on Wednesday for the first time identified the Kenosha police
officer who fired at Mr. Blake as Rusten Sheskey, who has been with the
department for seven years. Officer Sheskey and two other officers who
were present at the shooting have been placed on administrative leave as
the Wisconsin Division of Criminal Investigation investigates the case,
which officials provided new details of on Wednesday evening.

Officers were responding to a domestic complaint on Sunday afternoon
when they attempted to arrest Mr. Blake, state officials said. They used
a Taser on Mr. Blake but it failed to stop him, and Officer Sheskey then
fired his gun seven times into Mr. Blake's back.

According to state officials, Mr. Blake admitted that he possessed a
knife; a knife was later recovered from the driver's-side floorboard of
Mr. Blake's car. There were no other weapons in the vehicle.

The Wisconsin attorney general, Josh Kaul, said he could not comment on
the role of the knife or whether officers instructed Mr. Blake to drop
it before the officer opened fire.

Ben Crump, a lawyer for Mr. Blake's family, said in a statement that Mr.
Blake had not posed any threat to police officers on Sunday, and denied
that he was carrying a knife. ``Jacob did nothing to provoke police,''
Mr. Crump said. ``He was a great father and was only intending to get
his children out of a volatile situation.''

Michael D. Graveley, the Kenosha County district attorney, said the
prosecutor's office would decide whether criminal charges were warranted
once the Wisconsin Division of Criminal Investigation completes its
inquiry. ``I ask for as much patience as our times allow,'' he said.

Until Wednesday, much of what was known of the shooting was from video
footage taken by a neighbor that showed Mr. Blake being shot in the back
as he tried to get into his car.

Kenosha officials vowed not to let the violence that has unfolded since
Sunday continue. They announced that a curfew, which has been moved up
to 7 p.m., would extend through the weekend. ``It's something we have to
do,'' Sheriff David Beth said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/26/us/politics/26wisconsin-police-chief-image/26wisconsin-police-chief-image-videoSixteenByNine3000.png}

On Tuesday night, loosely organized demonstrations had taken place in a
shifting, hourslong standoff between the police and protesters. Early in
the night, protesters assembled outside a newly erected metal barrier
protecting a county courthouse downtown and threw water bottles, rocks
and fireworks at officers.

The police responded with tear gas and rubber bullets, repeatedly
warning the crowd through a bullhorn that they were violating the city
curfew of 8 p.m. and risking arrest. The crowd was eventually forced out
of the park with tear gas and onto city streets, where the standoff
continued.

Many protesters left the area, but others lingered and walked to a gas
station several blocks away. There, a group of men with guns stood
outside, promising to protect the property and verbally sparring with
the arriving protesters. As the night stretched on, the gas station
became a tense gathering spot, with bystanders watching from parked cars
and people milling around in the street, arguing and occasionally
shoving one another.

Police officers had crept closer to the area in armored trucks, urging
the people who were still there to go home.

Then, near midnight, shots rang out.

Video footage from the scene of the shooting appears to show Mr.
Rittenhouse running and then firing his gun, striking a man in the head.
He then flees and is chased by bystanders before tripping, falling to
the ground and shooting another man.

``I've had people saying, `Why don't you deputize citizens?''' Sheriff
Beth said. ``This is why you don't deputize citizens with guns to
protect Kenosha.''

The protests of the shooting of Mr. Blake have reverberated far beyond
Kenosha: Demonstrators in other cities have chanted his name, and
protests in cities like Madison, Wis., have intensified since the police
shooting.

In Florida, the N.B.A. postponement was an extraordinary escalation of
how players have demonstrated for social causes this season, with
numerous athletes speaking out against systemic racism and police
brutality.

The boycott was quickly followed by the postponement of two more N.B.A.
playoff games scheduled for Wednesday night, and other leagues also took
notice: W.N.B.A. players refused to play in their games and two Major
League Baseball games were called off because athletes chose not to
participate.

``WE DEMAND CHANGE,'' the Los Angeles Lakers superstar
\href{https://twitter.com/KingJames/status/1298721240748711936}{LeBron
James wrote on Twitter}. ``SICK OF IT.''

Image

Black Lives Matter supporters march through Kenosha Tuesday during
unrest following the police shooting of Jacob Blake.Credit...Alyssa
Schukar for The New York Times

The postponement also affected first-round games between the Lakers and
the Portland Trail Blazers, and between the Oklahoma City Thunder and
the Houston Rockets.

Players from the Boston Celtics and the Toronto Raptors said on
Wednesday that they were considering boycotting the first game of their
series on Thursday night, and that some had raised the possibility of
leaving the N.B.A.'s restricted site at Walt Disney World near Orlando,
Fla., where the league is playing out its season in quarantine because
of the coronavirus pandemic.

Julie Bosman reported from Kenosha, and Sarah Mervosh from New York.
Marc Stein and Sopan Deb contributed reporting from Lake Buena Vista,
Fla., Katie Benner from Washington, and Annie Karni from North Haven,
Maine. Sheelagh McNeill contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
