Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{biden-calls-trump-downright-un-american-for-reportedly-disparaging-fallen-soldiers}{%
\section{Biden Calls Trump `Downright Un-American' for Reportedly
Disparaging Fallen
Soldiers}\label{biden-calls-trump-downright-un-american-for-reportedly-disparaging-fallen-soldiers}}

Last Updated

Sept. 8, 2020, 9:11 a.m. ET

Sept. 8, 2020, 9:11 a.m. ET

President Trump at a news conference said Joe Biden was ``stupid'' and
Senator Kamala Harris was ``not a competent person.'' Ms. Harris and
Vice President Mike Pence both made campaign stops in Wisconsin, an
increasingly crucial battleground state.

\emph{This briefing has ended. Follow}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election}{\emph{our
latest
coverage}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{of}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election}{\emph{the
Biden vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-says-trump-is-not-made-of-the-same-stuff-that-the-people-who-serve-this-nation-are-made-of}{}

  Biden says Trump is `not made of the same stuff that the people who
  serve this nation are made of.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-lashes-at-biden-and-harris-claiming-they-politicized-his-accelerated-vaccine-timeline}{}

  Trump lashes at Biden and Harris claiming they politicized his
  accelerated vaccine timeline.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-said-he-would-support-an-investigation-into-the-postmaster-general-whom-he-called-a-very-honest-guy}{}

  Trump said he would support an investigation into the postmaster
  general, whom he called `a very honest guy.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{kamala-harris-talks-to-black-business-owners-in-milwaukee}{}

  Kamala Harris talks to Black business owners in Milwaukee.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-meets-with-union-workers-in-lancaster-pa}{}

  Biden meets with union workers in Lancaster, Pa.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{in-her-first-stop-in-the-state-kamala-harris-met-privately-with-jacob-blakes-family}{}

  In her first stop in the state, Kamala Harris met privately with Jacob
  Blake's family.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{mike-pence-in-wisconsin-visit-attacks-joe-bidens-response-to-violence-at-protests}{}

  Mike Pence, in Wisconsin visit, attacks Joe Biden's response to
  violence at protests.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{aide-to-john-kelly-denies-being-a-source-for-the-atlantic-article}{}

  Aide to John Kelly denies being a source for The Atlantic article.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{more-than-ever-trump-is-casting-himself-as-the-defender-of-white-america}{}

  More than ever, Trump is casting himself as the defender of white
  America.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{biden-says-trump-is-not-made-of-the-same-stuff-that-the-people-who-serve-this-nation-are-made-of}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-says-trump-is-not-made-of-the-same-stuff-that-the-people-who-serve-this-nation-are-made-of}{Biden
says Trump is `not made of the same stuff that the people who serve this
nation are made
of.'}}{Biden says Trump is `not made of the same stuff that the people who serve this nation are made of.'}}\label{biden-says-trump-is-not-made-of-the-same-stuff-that-the-people-who-serve-this-nation-are-made-of}}

Speaking from the Pennsylvania A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters in Harrisburg,
Joseph R. Biden Jr. told union members he would be ``the strongest labor
president you have ever had'' and gave a blistering condemnation of
President Trump, calling him ``downright un-American'' for
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{reportedly
describing fallen service members} as ``losers'' and ``suckers.''

Mr. Biden also accused the president of prioritizing the stock market
over economic issues, like jobs and union rights, that directly affected
working-class people --- and even, he said, over Americans' lives during
the coronavirus pandemic.

``President Trump keeps talking about how great this economy is, how the
great the stock market is,'' he said. ``You know the reason he didn't
have the guts to take on Covid and threw up the white flag? He was
worried if he started talking about saving people's lives, the stock
market may fall.''

Appearing with Richard L. Trumka, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.,
Mr. Biden cited
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/265916/labor-day-turns-125-union-approval-near-year-high.aspx}{Gallup
polling} that showed Americans' support for labor unions near a 50-year
high. Among other things, he pledged if elected to increase essential
workers' wages, pass the PRO Act to give workers more organizational and
bargaining rights, and hold executives personally liable if they
interfere with unionization efforts.

``Wall Street did not build this country,'' Mr. Biden said. ``You did
--- the great American middle class. And the middle class was built by
unions --- unions --- and the American people now finally get it after a
long time of being convinced that unions were a problem, not the
answer.''

But Mr. Biden was most forceful when talking about the disparaging
remarks Mr. Trump reportedly made about service members.

``I'll tell you something: My Beau wasn't a loser or a sucker,'' he
said, describing his son's service in Kosovo and Iraq. ``He didn't serve
with losers and suckers. He served with heroes. He served with American
patriots. And none of the veterans you know were losers or suckers. No
president has ever talked about our servicemen and women in that way.''

His voice rising in anger, much as it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/biden-trump-soliders-insults.html}{when
he first addressed the reported comments} last week, he continued: ``I'm
sorry if I'm coming close to losing my temper, but the simple truth is,
if that's how you talk about our veterans, you have no business being
president of the United States of America. Period.''

He also denounced Mr. Trump, in unsparing terms, for reportedly saying
that he could not understand why people chose to serve in the military.
(Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{has
denied making the remarks}.)

``Does that surprise you coming from a man who only thinks about what
helps him?'' Mr. Biden said. ``He asked, quote, `What's in it for them?'
Does that surprise you coming from a man who only thinks about what's in
it for him? Well, he'll never understand. He'll never understand you,
he'll never understand us, he'll never understand our cops, our
firefighters, because he's not made of the same stuff that the people
who serve this nation are made of.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{trump-lashes-at-biden-and-harris-claiming-they-politicized-his-accelerated-vaccine-timeline}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-lashes-at-biden-and-harris-claiming-they-politicized-his-accelerated-vaccine-timeline}{Trump
lashes at Biden and Harris claiming they politicized his accelerated
vaccine
timeline.}}{Trump lashes at Biden and Harris claiming they politicized his accelerated vaccine timeline.}}\label{trump-lashes-at-biden-and-harris-claiming-they-politicized-his-accelerated-vaccine-timeline}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-trump/merlin_176697480_dd1c4738-9caf-48a4-ba0d-a482fea33a31-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

During a Labor Day news conference outside of the White House, President
Trump launched into a personal screed against his rival for president,
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., calling him a ``stupid
person'' and dismissing Senator Kamala Harris, Mr. Biden's running mate,
as ``not a competent person'' whom he predicted would never serve as
president.

Mr. Trump, who has been hoping that an October announcement of a vaccine
to treat the coronavirus could help his electoral chances in November,
said that Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris were spreading ``reckless
anti-vaccine rhetoric'' because they have raised questions about his
political motivations for an accelerated timeline.

``Contrary to all of the lies, Biden wants to surrender our country to
the virus,'' Mr. Trump claimed. ``He wants to surrender our families to
the violent left-wing mob, and he wants to surrender our jobs to China.
Our jobs and economic well-being.''

``Biden doesn't have a clue,'' he said. ``You know he doesn't have a
clue. In prime time he wasn't good, and now it is not prime time.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-astor-07-13-33/07elections-briefing-astor-07-13-33-videoSixteenByNine3000-v2.jpg}

Mr. Biden, for his part, said Monday that he would get a vaccine
tomorrow if scientists said it was safe and effective, but that Mr.
Trump had politicized the process.

``One of the problems with playing with politics is he's said so many
things that aren't true, I'm worried if we do have a really good
vaccine, people are going to be reluctant to take it,'' he said. ``He's
undermining public confidence. But pray God, we have it --- if I could
get a vaccine tomorrow, I'd do it. If it cost me the election, I'd do
it. We need a vaccine and we need it now.''

At the Republican National Convention, Mr. Trump's advisers made it
clear that the attack line against Mr. Biden they wanted to drive home
was portraying him as a ``Trojan Horse'' of the left. But Mr. Trump on
Monday resuscitated a more personal attack from the primaries, noting
that he liked to call Hunter Biden, Mr. Biden's son, ``Where's Hunter,''
claiming he benefited from his father's government position to enrich
himself and his business.

``Biden is a stupid person, you know that,'' he later claimed.

Mr. Trump said of Ms. Harris, ``she will never be president,'' and
accused her of ``disparaging a vaccine so that people don't think the
achievement was a great achievement.''

During the news conference, Mr. Trump lauded a reporter who removed his
mask to ask a question, noting ``you sound so clear as opposed to
everyone else where they refuse'' to remove them to speak.

Mr. Trump also defended himself against allegations that he had
privately referred to American troops killed in combat as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{``losers''
and ``suckers.''}

``I'm not saying the military is in love with me, the soldiers are,'' he
said. ``The top people in the Pentagon probably aren't because they want
to do nothing but fight wars so that all of those wonderful companies
that make the bombs, who make the planes, and make everything else stay
happy.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-said-he-would-support-an-investigation-into-the-postmaster-general-whom-he-called-a-very-honest-guy}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-said-he-would-support-an-investigation-into-the-postmaster-general-whom-he-called-a-very-honest-guy}{Trump
said he would support an investigation into the postmaster general, whom
he called `a very honest
guy.'}}{Trump said he would support an investigation into the postmaster general, whom he called `a very honest guy.'}}\label{trump-said-he-would-support-an-investigation-into-the-postmaster-general-whom-he-called-a-very-honest-guy}}

President Trump said on Monday that he would support an investigation of
the postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, for reportedly pressuring employees
at his former company to donate to Republican candidates and then
reimbursing them through bonuses.

``Let the investigations go,'' Mr. Trump said when asked during a Labor
Day news conference at the White House if he would support an inquiry
into the practice, which was
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/louis-dejoy-campaign-contributions/2020/09/06/1187bc2c-e3fe-11ea-8181-606e603bb1c4_story.html}{first
reported by The Washington Post}.

Mr. DeJoy, through a spokesman, told The Washington Post that he
``believes that he has always followed campaign fund-raising laws and
regulations.''

The arrangement at New Breed Logistics, Mr. DeJoy's former company, was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/06/us/politics/dejoy-political-donations.html?searchResultPosition=1}{described
to The Times} by three former employees, who said that workers would
receive bonuses if they donated to candidates he supported, and that it
was expected that managers would participate. A fourth employee
confirmed that managers at the company were routinely solicited to make
donations. The four former employees spoke on the condition of anonymity
for fear of professional retaliation.

Monty Hagler, a spokesman for Mr. DeJoy, told The Times in a statement
that Mr. DeJoy ``was never notified'' of any pressure employees might
have felt to make a political contribution, and ``regrets if any
employee felt uncomfortable for any reason.''

Mr. Hagler added that Mr. DeJoy had consulted with the former general
counsel of the Federal Election Commission on election laws ``to ensure
that he, New Breed Logistics and any person affiliated with New Breed
fully complied with any and all laws.''

Mr. Trump defended Mr. DeJoy, a former top campaign donor he tapped to
serve as postmaster general last May, as a ``very respected man.'' He
said that he was only vaguely familiar with the report about the illegal
fund-raising practice.

``I think he's a very honest guy, but we will see,'' Mr. Trump said.
When asked whether Mr. DeJoy should lose his job if the campaign finance
scheme he was running was proved to be illegal, Mr. Trump said he was
open to it. ``If something could be proven that he did something wrong,
always.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{kamala-harris-talks-to-black-business-owners-in-milwaukee}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{kamala-harris-talks-to-black-business-owners-in-milwaukee}{Kamala
Harris talks to Black business owners in
Milwaukee.}}{Kamala Harris talks to Black business owners in Milwaukee.}}\label{kamala-harris-talks-to-black-business-owners-in-milwaukee}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-astor-07-19-22/merlin_176705898_2eae7eea-dbfb-45d2-9fc5-6ca5ddbbb1e0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a discussion with Black business owners in Milwaukee on Monday,
Senator Kamala Harris emphasized the racial inequities that have been
made more visible by the coronavirus pandemic.

The pandemic ``has been an accelerator in many ways, and one way that we
talked about it in particular is highlighting the disparities in
technology based on race,'' she said.

As children return to remote schooling for the fall, Ms. Harris said
leaders had to think about ``whether that family has access to
broadband, whether that family has access to the knowledge about how
technology works, and that has everything to do with the capacity of the
children of that family to actually survive through this moment, much
less thrive.''

She said that if elected, she and Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic
presidential nominee, would provide more funding for entrepreneurs and
increase access to capital for small businesses.

``One of the attributes of healthy communities is that there's access to
capital for the small businesses that are the heartbeat of those
communities,'' she said. ``What we know about small businesses and
small-business leaders is they are not only leaders in business, they
are civic leaders. They hire locally. They understand the jewels that
exist within their community and the need to then encourage all of the
good things that can happen in those communities.''

After the event, Ms. Harris met with members of Voces de la Frontera, an
advocacy group for meatpacking employees and other frontline workers who
have been hit hard by the coronavirus.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{biden-meets-with-union-workers-in-lancaster-pa}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-meets-with-union-workers-in-lancaster-pa}{Biden
meets with union workers in Lancaster,
Pa.}}{Biden meets with union workers in Lancaster, Pa.}}\label{biden-meets-with-union-workers-in-lancaster-pa}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-astor-07-13-332/merlin_176696775_2b89ede8-5c69-4155-be2f-ea7626c7c7dd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a meeting with union members in Pennsylvania on Monday, Joseph R.
Biden Jr. condemned President Trump's job and trade policies and cast
the president as an enemy of working Americans.

Mr. Biden, sitting in a supporter's back yard in Lancaster with four
local union members, said that Mr. Trump only cared about the stock
market and criticized him for not meeting with congressional leaders on
a new relief package for people affected by the coronavirus pandemic.

He argued that strengthening unions would help the country recover from
the current recession, and said that, if elected, he would be ``the best
friend labor has ever had in the White House.''

It was a message that stood in stark contrast to that of the Trump
administration, which has scaled back some worker protections and
supported efforts to limit collective bargaining. Patricia Bowermaster,
a member of the American Federation of Government Employees Local 1156,
said the president's executive orders had gutted unions' ability to
represent workers.

Three of the union members who attended the event with Mr. Biden were
also Army veterans, and Mr. Biden asked them about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{the
disparaging remarks} Mr. Trump has been accused of making about service
members who were killed in combat.

``Do you think most of those guys are `suckers'?'' he asked Howard Nash,
a veteran and member of a pipe fitters' union.

``No,'' Mr. Nash said.

Later in the day, Mr. Biden will travel to the Pennsylvania
A.F.L.-C.I.O. headquarters in Harrisburg for a virtual event with the
union's president and members.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-her-first-stop-in-the-state-kamala-harris-met-privately-with-jacob-blakes-family}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-her-first-stop-in-the-state-kamala-harris-met-privately-with-jacob-blakes-family}{In
her first stop in the state, Kamala Harris met privately with Jacob
Blake's
family.}}{In her first stop in the state, Kamala Harris met privately with Jacob Blake's family.}}\label{in-her-first-stop-in-the-state-kamala-harris-met-privately-with-jacob-blakes-family}}

In her first excursion to a battleground state since she became the
Democratic vice-presidential nominee, Senator Kamala Harris met
privately in Wisconsin on Monday with the family of Jacob Blake, a Black
man shot repeatedly in the back by police officers.

Family members at the meeting included Mr. Blake's father and sisters;
his mother and Mr. Blake himself participated by phone.

``They're carrying the weight of a lot of voices on their shoulders,''
Ms. Harris told reporters afterward, adding that she had wanted ``to
express concern for their well-being and, of course, for their brother
and their son's well-being, and to let them know that they have
support.''

The police shooting of Mr. Blake in Kenosha, Wis., last month set off
major protests there, which President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-conspiracy-theory-thugs-plane.html}{has
seized on} to support his exaggerated claims that the country is being
consumed by violence. Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential
nominee, responded by condemning looting and rioting while expressing
support for peaceful racial-justice protesters.

Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/us/politics/joe-biden-kenosha.html}{met
with Mr. Blake's family} and legal team on Thursday. He also spoke by
phone with Mr. Blake himself, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/jacob-blake-video-statement.html}{is
paralyzed from the waist down} as a result of the shooting.

While she was in the Milwaukee area on Monday, Ms. Harris also toured an
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers training center and met
with union members.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{mike-pence-in-wisconsin-visit-attacks-joe-bidens-response-to-violence-at-protests}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{mike-pence-in-wisconsin-visit-attacks-joe-bidens-response-to-violence-at-protests}{Mike
Pence, in Wisconsin visit, attacks Joe Biden's response to violence at
protests.}}{Mike Pence, in Wisconsin visit, attacks Joe Biden's response to violence at protests.}}\label{mike-pence-in-wisconsin-visit-attacks-joe-bidens-response-to-violence-at-protests}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-penc2/merlin_176698314_761b6e69-c9c7-4ab7-86e7-6c2e3444fff1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

LA CROSSE, Wis. --- Vice President Mike Pence used a Labor Day visit to
one of the most crucial battleground states to attack Joseph R. Biden
Jr. for criticizing law enforcement, claiming that Mr. Biden, the
Democratic presidential nominee, would perpetuate ``policies that have
literally led to violence in our major American cities.''

Appearing in western Wisconsin less than a week after President Trump
visited Kenosha, Wis., which has endured arson and looting after the
police shooting of Jacob Blake, Mr. Pence scorned Mr. Biden for not
criticizing Democratic mayors or mentioning Antifa by name in his
condemnation of violence.

The vice president said Mr. Trump had ``quelled the violence'' by
sending in federal troops to assist local law enforcement.

While acknowledging that the police use of force should be ``thoroughly
investigated,'' Mr. Pence did not mention Mr. Blake and instead focused
on the violent aftermath of his shooting.

``Rioting and looting is not peaceful protest, burning businesses is not
free speech,'' he said, vowing that those who do so ``will be prosecuted
to fullest extent of the law.''

Republicans have sought to elevate the issue of law an order to make up
ground against Mr. Biden, who has enjoyed a steady lead in the polls in
Wisconsin, a state that Mr. Trump carried by less than a point in 2016.
Mr. Biden has responded by airing a commercial, here, and in other swing
states, that features footage of him from his speech in Pittsburgh, in
which he spoke out against violence.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin}

\hypertarget{aide-to-john-kelly-denies-being-a-source-for-the-atlantic-article}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{aide-to-john-kelly-denies-being-a-source-for-the-atlantic-article}{Aide
to John Kelly denies being a source for The Atlantic
article.}}{Aide to John Kelly denies being a source for The Atlantic article.}}\label{aide-to-john-kelly-denies-being-a-source-for-the-atlantic-article}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/us/politics/07elections-briefing-fuentes/07elections-briefing-fuentes-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Four days after The Atlantic published a report about how President
Trump had privately referred to American troops killed in combat as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{``losers''
and ``suckers}'' during a 2018 trip to France, a former deputy White
House chief of staff released a carefully worded statement in which he
claimed he was not a source for the story. But he did not dismiss the
comments outright.

``You can put me on the record denying that I spoke with The Atlantic!''
Zachary D. Fuentes, the former deputy White House chief of staff, on
Monday said in a statement he sent to multiple news outlets. Mr. Fuentes
served as deputy to John F. Kelly, the former White House chief of
staff. At the time, Mr. Fuentes was said to be responsible for making
the decision not to fly Marine One to visit Belleau Wood, a cemetery for
American soldiers killed in World War I, because of bad weather, and
other officials
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-veterans-losers.html}{said
he had assured Mr. Trump it was fine for him to miss the ceremony}
there. The Atlantic article cited
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2020/09/trump-americans-who-died-at-war-are-losers-and-suckers/615997/}{``four
people with firsthand knowledge of the discussion that day.''}

In his statement released Monday, Mr. Fuentes said he did not hear the
president call anyone ``losers when I told him about the weather'' and
claimed that Mr. Kelly, a former four-star Marine general, would not
have ``stood by and let ANYONE call fallen Marines losers.''

``Whoever the sources are,'' Mr. Fuentes said, ``they are unlikely first
hand accounts, and they are conflating stories.''

Before contacting The Times, Mr. Fuentes first sent a similar statement
to Breitbart News, a right-wing website, saying that the sources for The
Atlantic story were likely ``conflating those people from something the
day after.'' His statement to The Times, however, did not make any
mention of any conversations occurring ``the day after,'' and Mr.
Fuentes did not respond to a follow-up question seeking clarification.

In his statement, Mr. Fuentes also said he was ``disappointed'' that Mr.
Trump was critical of Mr. Kelly, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/kelly-trump.html}{so
far has declined on the record interviews about the}trip, and has told
associates he doesn't want to become a lightning rod for Trump
supporters by speaking out about the president.

At a news conference on Labor Day, Mr. Trump, who has been enraged by
The Atlantic report since it came out last week, said he was ``very
heartened to see Zach Fuentes came out with the statement he did last
night that it was not true.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-the-final-stretch-biden-is-defending-his-lead-against-a-gop-onslaught}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-the-final-stretch-biden-is-defending-his-lead-against-a-gop-onslaught}{In
the final stretch, Biden is defending his lead against a G.O.P.
onslaught.}}{In the final stretch, Biden is defending his lead against a G.O.P. onslaught.}}\label{in-the-final-stretch-biden-is-defending-his-lead-against-a-gop-onslaught}}

Image

President Trump campaigning in Wilmington, N.C., on Wednesday. He is
trying to revive his candidacy heading into the final two months of the
campaign.~Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

The presidential campaign, long muffled by the coronavirus pandemic,
will burst into a newly intense and public phase after Labor Day, with
Joseph R. Biden Jr. moving aggressively to defend his polling lead
against a ferocious onslaught by President Trump aimed chiefly at white
voters in the Midwest.

Private polls conducted for both parties during and after their August
conventions found the race largely stable but tightening slightly in
some states, with Mr. Trump recovering some support from
conservative-leaning rural voters who had drifted away over the summer.

But Mr. Biden continues to enjoy advantages with nearly every other
group, especially in populous areas where the virus remains at the
forefront for voters, according to people briefed on the data.

No president has entered Labor Day weekend --- the traditional kickoff
of the fall campaign --- as such a clear underdog since George H.W. Bush
in 1992. Mr. Trump has not led in public polls in such must-win states
as Florida since Mr. Biden claimed the nomination in April, and there
has been little fluctuation in the race.

Still, the president's surprise win in 2016 weighs heavily in the
thinking of nervous Democrats and hopeful Republicans alike.

Mr. Trump's effort to revive his candidacy by blaming Mr. Biden's party
for scenes of looting and arson in American cities has jolted Mr. Biden
into a more proactive posture, one that some Democrats have long urged
him to adopt.

The former vice president spent last week pushing back forcefully on Mr.
Trump's often false attacks, after encouragement from allies including
former Secretary of State John F. Kerry, whose 2004 presidential
campaign faltered in the face of a concerted smear campaign about his
Vietnam War service.

Both parties see Mr. Trump with a narrow path to re-election that runs
through heavily white states like Wisconsin and Minnesota, where his
strategy of racial division could help him catch Mr. Biden. But the
president is also on defense in diverse Southern and Western states he
carried in 2016, including Florida, North Carolina, Arizona and Georgia.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\hypertarget{more-than-ever-trump-is-casting-himself-as-the-defender-of-white-america}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{more-than-ever-trump-is-casting-himself-as-the-defender-of-white-america}{More
than ever, Trump is casting himself as the defender of white
America.}}{More than ever, Trump is casting himself as the defender of white America.}}\label{more-than-ever-trump-is-casting-himself-as-the-defender-of-white-america}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/us/politics/06trump-race1/06trump-race1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} has made it clear over the last few days that, in his view, the
country's real race problem is bias against white Americans.

Just days after returning from Kenosha, Wis., where he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-conspiracy-theory-thugs-plane.html}{staunchly
backed law enforcement} and did not mention the name of Jacob Blake, the
Black man shot seven times in the back by the police,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/politics/trump-race-sensitivity-training.html}{Mr.
Trump issued an order} on Friday to purge the federal government of
racial sensitivity training that his White House called ``divisive,
anti-American propaganda.''

The president then spent much of the weekend tweeting about his action,
presenting himself as a warrior against identity politics. ``This is a
sickness that cannot be allowed to continue,'' he wrote of such
programs. ``Please report any sightings so we can quickly extinguish!''
He reposted a tweet from a conservative outlet hailing his order:
``Sorry liberals! How to be Anti-White 101 is permanently cancelled!''

Not in generations has a sitting president so overtly declared himself
the candidate of white America.

While Mr. Trump's campaign sought to temper the culture war messaging at
the Republican National Convention last month by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/us/politics/rnc-trump-race-gender.html}{showcasing
Black and Hispanic supporters who denied that he is a racist}, the
president himself has increasingly made appeals to the grievances of
white supporters a centerpiece of his campaign to win a second term.

The message appears designed to galvanize supporters who have cheered
what they see as a defiant stand against political correctness since the
days when he kicked off his last presidential campaign in 2015 by
denouncing, without evidence, Mexicans crossing the border as
``rapists.''

While he initially voiced concern over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/us/george-floyd-investigation.html}{the
killing of George Floyd} under the knee of a white police officer in
Minneapolis this spring, which touched off nationwide protests, he has
focused since then almost entirely on defending the police and
condemning demonstrations during which there have been outbreaks of
looting and violence.

``Trump is the most extreme, and he has done something that is beyond
the bounds of anything we have seen,'' said Sherrilyn Ifill, the
president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. ``Playing
with racism is a dangerous game. It's not that you can do it a little
bit or do it slyly or do it with a dog whistle. It's all dangerous, and
it's all potentially violent.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter
Baker}

\hypertarget{michael-cohens-book-says-trump-held-low-opinions-of-all-black-folks}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{michael-cohens-book-says-trump-held-low-opinions-of-all-black-folks}{Michael
Cohen's book says Trump held `low opinions of all Black
folks.'}}{Michael Cohen's book says Trump held `low opinions of all Black folks.'}}\label{michael-cohens-book-says-trump-held-low-opinions-of-all-black-folks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/us/politics/06dc-cohen1/merlin_174917778_3d0f5504-b942-4f2f-b1a4-b985560e91ea-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump routinely referred to Black leaders of foreign nations
with racist insults. He had an abiding admiration for President Vladimir
V. Putin's willingness to treat Russia like a personal business. And he
was consumed with hatred for President Barack Obama.

Those are the descriptions that Michael D. Cohen, a former personal
lawyer and self-described fixer for Mr. Trump, lays out in his book,
``Disloyal: A Memoir,'' which paints the president as a sordid, moblike
figure willing to engage in underhanded tactics against anyone opposing
him.

``As a rule, Trump expressed low opinions of all Black folks, from music
to culture and politics,'' Mr. Cohen writes in the book, to be released
Tuesday. He describes Mr. Trump calling Nelson Mandela, who led the
emancipation of South Africa from white minority rule, ``no leader.''

``Tell me one country run by a Black person that isn't a shithole,'' Mr.
Cohen quotes Mr. Trump as saying. He also alleges that Mr. Trump called
Kwame Jackson, a Black contestant on his reality TV show ``The
Apprentice,'' a homophobic slur, and that he had deep disgust with Black
leaders in addition to celebrities and sports figures.

He also was obsessed with Mr. Obama, Mr. Cohen writes. The book
describes Mr. Trump hiring ``a Faux-Bama, or fake Obama, to record a
video where Trump ritualistically belittled the first Black president
and then fired him, a kind of fantasy fulfillment that it was hard to
imagine any adult would spend serious money living out --- until he did
the functional equivalent in the real world.''

The video Mr. Cohen describes appears to be a recording that was
supposed to be shown the first night of the Republican National
Convention in 2012, when Mr. Trump had endorsed the party's presidential
nominee, Mitt Romney, and insisted on having time during the
programming.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-the-president-has-drawn-on-campaign-funds-to-pay-legal-bills}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{how-the-president-has-drawn-on-campaign-funds-to-pay-legal-bills}{How
the president has drawn on campaign funds to pay legal
bills.}}{How the president has drawn on campaign funds to pay legal bills.}}\label{how-the-president-has-drawn-on-campaign-funds-to-pay-legal-bills}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/05/us/politics/05dc-trump-legal1-sub/merlin_176308608_73f17538-97cc-4da8-907b-f2811b4a59e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump was proudly litigious before his victory in 2016 and has
remained so in the White House. But one big factor has changed: He has
drawn on campaign donations as a piggy bank for his legal expenses to a
degree far greater than any of his predecessors.

In New York, Mr. Trump dispatched a team of lawyers to
\href{https://int.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/data/documenttools/101616-2017-jessica-denson-v-jessica-denson-exhibit-s-17-arbitration-files/b5ecf44c5ac0c015/full.pdf}{seek
damages} of more than \$1 million from a former campaign worker after
she claimed she had been the target of sexual discrimination and
harassment by another aide. The lawyers have been paid \$1.5 million by
the Trump campaign for work on the case and others related to the
president.

In Washington, Mr. Trump and his campaign affiliates hired lawyers to
assist members of his staff and family --- including a onetime
bodyguard, his oldest son and his son-in-law --- as they were pulled
into investigations related to Russia and Ukraine. The Republican
National Committee has paid at least \$2.5 million in legal bills to the
firms that did this and other legal work.

In California, Mr. Trump sued to block a law that would have forced him
to release his taxes if he wanted to run for re-election. The Trump
campaign and the Republican National Committee have paid the law firm
handling this case, among others, \$1.8 million.

Mr. Trump's tendency to turn to the courts --- and the legal issues that
have stemmed from norm-breaking characteristics of his presidency ---
helps explain how he and his affiliated political entities have spent at
least \$58.4 million in donations on legal and compliance work since
2015, according to a tally by The New York Times and the nonpartisan
Campaign Finance Institute.

By comparison,
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00431445\&committee_id=C00451393\&committee_id=C00494740\&min_date=01\%2F01\%2F2007\&max_date=08\%2F30\%2F2012\&disbursement_description=compliance\&disbursement_description=legal}{President
Barack Obama} and the
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00010603\&two_year_transaction_period=2008\&two_year_transaction_period=2010\&two_year_transaction_period=2012\&two_year_transaction_period=2014\&min_date=07\%2F01\%2F2008\&max_date=12\%2F31\%2F2012\&disbursement_description=legal+\&disbursement_description=compliance}{Democratic
National Committee} spent \$10.7 million on legal and compliance
expenses during the equivalent period starting in 2007.
\href{https://transition.fec.gov/press/summaries/2000/tables/presidential/Pres2_2000_24m.pdf}{President
George W. Bush} also
\href{https://www.fec.gov/data/disbursements/?data_type=processed\&committee_id=C00343509\&committee_id=C00386987\&committee_id=C00388579\&committee_id=C00404343\&min_date=01\%2F01\%2F2001\&max_date=12\%2F31\%2F2004\&disbursement_description=compliance\&disbursement_description=legal}{spent
much less}, even taking into account
\href{http://www.politicalmoneyline.com/noaccess.aspx}{his legal
spending on the recount fight} that went to the Supreme Court, records
show.

The spending on behalf of Mr. Trump covers not only legal work that
would be relatively routine for any president or candidate and some of
the costs related to the Russia inquiry and his impeachment, but also
cases in which he has a personal stake, including attempts to enforce
nondisclosure agreements and protect his business interests.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eric-lipton}{Eric
Lipton}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
