Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Officials Float Idea
of Narrow Bill to Extend Unemployment Benefits

\url{https://nyti.ms/32UVE5h}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-officials-float-idea-of-narrow-bill-to-extend-unemployment-benefits}{%
\section{Trump Officials Float Idea of Narrow Bill to Extend
Unemployment
Benefits}\label{trump-officials-float-idea-of-narrow-bill-to-extend-unemployment-benefits}}

The proposal on the eve of Republicans' unveiling of a larger aid bill
amounts to a concession that the two parties are unlikely to reach a
deal before benefits expire.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/us/politics/26dc-virus-cong/26dc-virus-cong-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-emily-cochrane/author-emily-cochrane-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily Cochrane}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Top Trump administration officials proposed on Sunday potentially
short-circuiting free-ranging stimulus talks with Democrats to rush
through a much narrower bill prioritizing an extension of federal
unemployment benefits that are set to expire this week for millions of
Americans.

Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, said he would now like to
see lawmakers act this week to extend and alter the unemployment
program, give tax credits to businesses to help ease reopening costs and
grant employers new liability protections --- while setting aside a long
list of other objectives, including Democrats' priorities.

``Perhaps we put that forward, get that passed, as we can negotiate on
the rest of the bill in the weeks to come,'' Mr. Meadows said on ABC's
``This Week.''

The proposal, echoed by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin in his own
Sunday morning interview, was a last-ditch effort by Republicans to
prevent the program from lapsing as signs mounted that the nation's
economy was once again weakening amid a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{resurgence
of coronavirus cases}. But as they prepared to roll out their own more
expansive relief legislation on Monday, it amounted to a concession that
Republicans, slowed by their own internal divisions, were unlikely to
reach a deal on a comprehensive relief package with Democrats before
millions begin losing a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/business/economy/600-unemployment-benefits.html}{\$600-a-week
benefit} that has helped contain the economic carnage.

With Democrats already on record in opposition to a piecemeal approach,
a narrow fix is almost certainly dead on arrival. Republicans know that,
suggesting their Sunday proposal may in part be a **** negotiating
tactic laying the groundwork to blame the opposition party when the
funds ultimately expire.

Democrats passed their own
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/15/us/politics/house-simulus-vote.html}{\$3
trillion proposal} --- which also includes money to bail out states and
cities, fully fund the \$600 federal jobless benefit and infuse billions
more into the nation's health care system --- in May and view the time
pinch now as a problem of Republicans' making that only gives them more
leverage in shaping a final bill.

``We've been anxious to negotiate for two months and 10 days,'' Speaker
Nancy Pelosi said on Sunday on the CBS program ``Face the Nation.'' She
said Congress could not leave town for its annual August recess until a
deal was struck and noted that she spent the weekend waiting to hear
from the other party and begin talks.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T10:04:29.623Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``This is an emergency,'' Ms. Pelosi added. ``Maybe they don't
understand. I don't know what they have against working families in
America to keep this going so long.''

In addition to a difference in negotiating strategy, the two sides have
very different views about how to handle even the narrow set of issues
identified by the White House. Republicans are proposing altering the
jobless benefit program to replace the \$600 flat weekly payments with a
plan that would replace about 70 percent of a worker's lost wages --- a
change Democrats are unlikely to endorse. And Democrats strongly oppose
an effort by Republicans to give many employers new protections from
lawsuits from their workers, patients or students.

Even before engaging Democrats, Senate Republicans and the White House
have struggled to come to terms on their own \$1 trillion proposal. They
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/us/politics/republicans-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{blew
through a series of self-imposed deadlines} last week as they fought
over how to structure changes to the unemployment benefit system,
whether to include a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/23/business/payroll-tax-cut-trump-recession.html}{payroll
tax cut pushed by President Trump} and whether to tie funds for schools
to a commitment that they reopen in person this fall.

Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Meadows now claim to be on the same page as Senate
Republicans, and after working through the weekend to iron out details,
they now plan to begin unveiling the legislative package Monday
afternoon.

``It's just down to a handful of items where we believe a phone call
here and there should be able to resolve it,'' Mr. Meadows told
reporters as he left Capitol Hill early Sunday evening, after a rare
weekend meeting with Senate staff members and Mr. Mnuchin.

Formal talks with Democrats could follow, but Senator Mitch McConnell,
Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, predicted on Friday that
they could take ``weeks.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/26/us/politics/26dc-virus-cong2/merlin_174886104_425d005d-afc6-4cb9-a010-210674e448ec-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Even then, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina,
predicted on Sunday that months after voting unanimously on the first
stimulus bill, much of his party would now be unwilling to support any
relief bill. Outright opposition to additional stimulus from the
Republicans' right flank may only further empower Democrats when
two-party talks begin.

``Half the Republicans are going to vote no to any Phase 4 package,''
Mr. Graham said on Fox News. ``That's just a fact.''

In addition to the unemployment benefits change and liability
protections, the Republican legislation is expected to include \$105
billion for schools and billions of dollars more for testing, contact
tracing and vaccine distribution. Some of the education funds would be
reserved for elementary and secondary schools that are reopening and
bringing students back to a more traditional, in-person setting.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The bill is likely to provide for another round of stimulus checks to
American families, though it remains unclear who would be eligible to
receive those payments. Larry Kudlow, the director of the National
Economic Council, said on Sunday that the checks would be worth \$1,200,
though he did not detail who precisely would receive them.

The largest sticking point, though, has been the effort to scale back
unemployment insurance benefits. The White House and congressional
Republicans largely agree that the \$600 weekly payment established in
the \$2.2 trillion stimulus law on top of state unemployment pay is too
generous, in some cases providing recipients more money than they
received in their job, and discourages people from returning to work.

``The original unemployment benefits actually paid people to stay home,
and actually a lot of people got more money staying at home than they
would going back to work,'' Mr. Meadows said on Sunday. ``So the
president has been very clear, our Republican senators have been very
clear, we're not going to extend that provision.''

Democrats, who want to extend the current benefit through the end of the
year, say Republicans' plan would present significant technical hurdles
and cut funds to Americans when they need it. When Democrats in March
proposed matching 100 percent of a worker's prior income, Labor
Department officials said that antiquated state unemployment systems
would make it too complicated to execute.

The National Association of State Workforce Agencies also warned Capitol
Hill this week that such a significant change to the current program was
likely to take months for states to carry out, according to a memo
obtained by The New York Times, meaning that it would take even longer
for Americans to start receiving the benefits again.

Even though the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/21/business/economy/coronavirus-unemployment-benefits.html}{benefits
program is set to expire at the end of July}, workers in most states are
already losing access to the expanded unemployment payments. Experts
fear further economic turbulence if the program is not quickly
reinstated.

After a Saturday meeting with Senate staff on Capitol Hill, Mr. Mnuchin
and Mr. Meadows said they also planned to include a number of tax
incentives in their bill to help businesses trying to reopen, as well as
language providing for what Mr. Meadows described as ``manufacturing
incentives to make sure we can support American jobs.''

And Mr. Kudlow said on Sunday that the White House was looking to
include an extension on a moratorium on evictions that just expired.

``We will lengthen the eviction'' moratorium, he said. ``We will
lengthen it.''

Alan Rappeport and Katie Rogers contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
