Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Medical Expert Who
Corrects Trump Is Now a Target of the Far Right

\href{https://nyti.ms/2QVlXSi}{https://nyti.ms/2QVlXSi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{medical-expert-who-corrects-trump-is-now-a-target-of-the-far-right}{%
\section{Medical Expert Who Corrects Trump Is Now a Target of the Far
Right}\label{medical-expert-who-corrects-trump-is-now-a-target-of-the-far-right}}

Dr. Anthony Fauci, the administration's most outspoken advocate of
emergency virus measures, faces a torrent of false claims that he is
mobilizing to undermine the president.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/29/business/29VIRUS-FAUCIDISINFO1/merlin_170843694_18177b2a-d94c-4dcc-973b-11407cd6212d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/davey-alba}{Davey Alba} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera Frenkel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 28, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At a White House briefing on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storyline_menu}{the
coronavirus} on March 20, President Trump called the State Department
the ``Deep State Department.'' Behind him, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the
director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
dropped his head and rubbed his forehead.

Some thought Dr. Fauci was slighting the president, leading to a
vitriolic online reaction. On Twitter and Facebook, a post that falsely
claimed he was part of a secret cabal who opposed Mr. Trump was soon
shared thousands of times, reaching roughly 1.5 million people.

A week later, Dr. Fauci --- the administration's most outspoken advocate
of emergency measures to fight the coronavirus outbreak --- has become
the target of an online conspiracy theory that he is mobilizing to
undermine the president.

That fanciful claim has spread across social media, fanned by a
right-wing chorus of Mr. Trump's supporters, even as Dr. Fauci has won a
public following for his willingness to contradict the president and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/23/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-fauci.html}{correct
falsehoods and overly rosy} pronouncements about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{containing
the virus}.

An analysis by The New York Times found over 70 accounts on Twitter that
have promoted the hashtag \#FauciFraud, with some tweeting as frequently
as 795 times a day. The anti-Fauci sentiment is being reinforced by
posts from Tom Fitton, the president of Judicial Watch, a conservative
group; Bill Mitchell, host of the far-right online talk show ``YourVoice
America''; and other outspoken Trump supporters such as Shiva Ayyadurai,
who has falsely claimed to be the inventor of email.

Many of the anti-Fauci posts, some of which pointed to a seven-year-old
email that Dr. Fauci had sent praising Hillary Clinton when she was
secretary of State, have been retweeted thousands of times. On YouTube,
conspiracy-theory videos about Dr. Fauci have racked up hundreds of
thousands of views in the past week. In private Facebook groups, posts
disparaging him have also been shared hundreds of times and liked by
thousands of people, according to the Times analysis.

One anti-Fauci tweet on Tuesday said, ``Sorry liberals but we don't
trust Dr. Anthony Fauci.''

The torrent of falsehoods aimed at discrediting Dr. Fauci is another
example of the hyperpartisan information flow that has driven a wedge
into the way Americans think. For the past few years, far-right
supporters of President Trump have regularly vilified those whom they
see as opposing him. Even so, the campaign against Dr. Fauci stands out
because he is one of the world's leading infectious disease experts and
a member of Mr. Trump's virus task force, and it is unfolding as the
government battles a pathogen that is rapidly spreading in the United
States.

It is the latest twist in the ebb and flow of right-wing punditry that
for weeks echoed Mr. Trump in minimizing the threat posed by the
coronavirus and arguably undercut efforts to alert the public of its
dangers. When the president took a more assertive posture against the
outbreak, conservative outlets shifted, too --- but now accuse Democrats
and journalists of trying to use the pandemic to damage Mr. Trump
politically.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/03/29/business/29VIRUS-FAUCIDISINFO2/00VIRUS-FAUCIDISINFO2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``There seems to be a concerted effort on the part of Trump supporters
to spread misinformation about the virus aggressively,'' said Carl
Bergstrom, a professor of biology at the University of Washington who
has studied misinformation.

Adding that Dr. Fauci is bearing the brunt of the attacks, Mr. Bergstrom
said: ``There is this sense that experts are untrustworthy, and have
agendas that aren't aligned with the people. It's very concerning
because the experts in this are being discounted out of hand.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#wealthy-families-are-throwing-a-lifeline-to-distressed-businesses}{25h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#wealthy-families-are-throwing-a-lifeline-to-distressed-businesses}{Wealthy
families are throwing a lifeline to distressed businesses.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-publisher-of-the-onion-jezebel-and-other-websites-lays-off-15-employees}{26h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-publisher-of-the-onion-jezebel-and-other-websites-lays-off-15-employees}{The
publisher of The Onion, Jezebel and other websites lays off 15
employees.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#canada-outlines-its-response-to-the-new-us-aluminum-tariff}{30h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#canada-outlines-its-response-to-the-new-us-aluminum-tariff}{Canada
outlines its response to the new U.S. aluminum tariff.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

The Trump administration has previously shown a distaste for relying on
scientific expertise, such as when dealing with climate change. But
misinformation campaigns during a pandemic carry a unique danger because
they may sow distrust in public health officials when accurate
information and advice are crucial, said Whitney Phillips, an assistant
professor at Syracuse University who teaches digital ethics.

``What this case will show is that conspiracy theories can kill,'' she
said.

The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases did not
respond to a request for comment on the misinformation being directed at
Dr. Fauci, who has said he plans to keep working to contain the
coronavirus.

``When you're dealing with the White House, sometimes you have to say
things one, two, three, four times, and then it happens,'' Dr. Fauci
said
\href{https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2020/03/i-m-going-keep-pushing-anthony-fauci-tries-make-white-house-listen-facts-pandemic}{in
an interview} with Science magazine this past week. ``So, I'm going to
keep pushing.''

The online campaign is an abrupt shift for Dr. Fauci, an immunologist
who has led the institute since 1984. He has long been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/08/health/fauci-coronavirus.html}{seen
as credible} by a large section of the public and journalists, advising
every president since Ronald Reagan and encouraging action against the
AIDS epidemic in the 1980s.

In recent weeks, much of the online discussion of Dr. Fauci was benign
or positive. Zignal Labs, a media analysis company, studied 1.7 million
mentions of Dr. Fauci across the web and TV broadcasts from Feb. 27 to
Friday and found that through mid-March, he was mainly praised and his
comments were straightforwardly reported. Right-wing figures quoted Dr.
Fauci approvingly or lauded him for his comments on shutting down travel
to and from China, Zignal Labs said.

In the White House briefings on the coronavirus, he often spoke plainly
of the severity of the situation, becoming something of a folk hero to
some on the left. Then Dr. Fauci, who had been a steady presence at Mr.
Trump's side during the briefings, did not appear at the one on March
18.

A hashtag asking ``Where is Dr. Fauci?'' began trending on Twitter.
Several Facebook fan groups dedicated to praising his medical record
called for his return. The first accounts tweeting \#FauciFraud also
appeared, though their volume of posts was small, according to the Times
analysis.

Two days later, Dr. Fauci put his head in his hand at the White House
briefing after Mr. Trump's remark on the ``Deep State Department.'' His
gesture --- some called it a face palm --- caught the attention of Mr.
Trump's supporters online, who saw it as an insult to the president.

Anti-Fauci posts spiked, according to Zignal Labs. Much of the increase
was prompted by a March 21 article in The American Thinker, a
conservative blog, which published the seven-year-old email that Dr.
Fauci had written to an aide of Mrs. Clinton.

In the email, Dr. Fauci praised Mrs. Clinton for her stamina during the
2013 Benghazi hearings. The American Thinker falsely claimed that the
email was evidence that he was part of a secret group who opposed Mr.
Trump.

Image

The online campaign against Dr. Fauci has grown even as he remains a
crucial member of Mr. Trump's coronavirus task force.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

That same day, Mr. Fitton of Judicial Watch posted a tweet linking to a
different blog post that showed Dr. Fauci's email on Mrs. Clinton. In
the tweet, Mr. Fitton included a video of himself crossing his arms and
saying, ``Isn't that interesting.'' It was retweeted more than 1,500
times.

In an interview, Mr. Fitton said, ``Dr. Fauci is doing a great job.'' He
added that Dr. Fauci ``wrote very political statements to Hillary
Clinton that were odd for an appointee of his nature to send.''

The conspiracy theory was soon shared thousands of times across Facebook
and Twitter. It was also taken up by messaging groups on WhatsApp and
Facebook
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/09/us/politics/qanon-trump-conspiracy-theory.html}{run
by QAnon}, the anonymous group that claims to be privy to government
secrets. On YouTube, far-right personalities began spouting that Dr.
Fauci was a fraud.

By Tuesday, the online and television mentions of Dr. Fauci had declined
but had become consistently negative, Zignal Labs said.

One anti-Fauci tweet last Sunday read: ``Dr. Fauci is in love w/ crooked
@HillaryClinton. More reasons not to trust him.''

Facebook said it proactively removed misinformation related to the
coronavirus. YouTube said that it did not recommend the
conspiracy-theory videos on Dr. Fauci to viewers and that it promotes
credible virus information. Twitter said it remained ``focused on taking
down content that can lead to harm.''

Ms. Phillips, the Syracuse assistant professor, said the campaign was
part of a long-term conspiracy theory propagated by Mr. Trump's
followers.

``Fauci has just been particularly prominent,'' she said. ``But any
public health official who gets cast in a conspiratorial narrative is
going to be subject to those same kinds of suspicions, the same kinds of
doubt.''

That has not stopped Dr. Fauci from appearing on the internet. On
Thursday, he joined a 30-minute Instagram Live discussion about the
coronavirus
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/26/sports/basketball/coronavirus-stephen-curry-instagram.html}{hosted
by the National Basketball Association star Stephen Curry}.

In the session, Dr. Fauci, with a miniature basketball hoop behind him,
conveyed the same message that he had said for weeks about the outbreak.

``This is serious business,'' he said. ``We are not overreacting.''

Ben Decker contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
