Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}The Trump-Kim Summit
Was Unprecedented, but the Statement Was Vague

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-trump-kim-summit-was-unprecedented-but-the-statement-was-vague}{%
\section{The Trump-Kim Summit Was Unprecedented, but the Statement Was
Vague}\label{the-trump-kim-summit-was-unprecedented-but-the-statement-was-vague}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/world/13summit/13summit-photos-6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-landler}{Mark Landler}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 12, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SINGAPORE --- In a day of personal diplomacy that began with a
choreographed handshake and ended with a freewheeling
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/12/world/asia/trump-summit-transcript.html}{news
conference}, President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/12/world/asia/trump-kim-policy.html}{deepened
his wager} on North Korea's leader on Tuesday, arguing that their
rapport would bring the swift demise of that country's nuclear program.

Mr. Trump, acting more salesman than statesman, used flattery, cajolery
and even a slickly produced promotional video to try to make the North
Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, a partner in peace. He also gave Mr. Kim a
significant concession: no more military drills between the United
States and South Korea, a change that surprised South Korea and the
Pentagon.

After hours of face-to-face contact, in which Mr. Trump even gave Mr.
Kim a peek inside his bulletproof presidential limousine, he said he
believed that Mr. Kim's desire to end North Korea's seven-decade-old
confrontation with the United States was sincere.

``He was very firm in the fact that he wants to do this,'' Mr. Trump
said at the news conference before leaving for home. While cautioning
that he could not be sure, Mr. Trump said, ``I think he might want to do
this as much or even more than me.''

Still, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/12/world/asia/trump-kim-summit-statement.html}{joint
statement} signed by the two after their meeting ---
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/11/world/asia/trump-kim-summitmeeting.html}{the
first ever between a sitting American president and a North Korean
leader} --- was as skimpy as the summit meeting was extravagant. It
called for the ``complete denuclearization'' of the Korean Peninsula but
provided neither a timeline nor any details about how the North would go
about giving up its weapons.

The statement, which American officials negotiated intensely with the
North Koreans and had hoped would be a road map to a nuclear deal, was a
page and a half of diplomatic language recycled from statements
negotiated by the North over the last two decades.

It made no mention of Mr. Trump's longstanding --- supposedly
nonnegotiable --- demand that North Korea submit to complete,
verifiable, irreversible denuclearization. It made no mention of North
Korea's missiles. It did not even set a firm date for a follow-up
meeting, though the president said he would invite Mr. Kim to the White
House when the time was right.

``This is what North Korea has wanted from the beginning, and I cannot
believe that our side allowed it,'' said Joseph Y. Yun, a former State
Department official who has negotiated with the North. ``I am quite
simply surprised that months of negotiations produced so little.''

On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1006837823469735936}{said
on Twitter} that there was ``no longer a Nuclear Threat from North
Korea.''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1006839007492308992}{He
added}, ``President Obama said that North Korea was our biggest and most
dangerous problem. No longer --- sleep well tonight!''

If the summit meeting's outcome was short on substance, it still helped
replace the fears of a nuclear showdown with diplomacy. For Mr. Trump,
the spare joint statement seemed almost beside the point. He said the
meeting was successful because it had reduced tensions.

Mr. Trump said he had taken Mr. Kim's measure during three hours of
meetings --- plus a lunch of prawns and crispy pork --- and found him
genuine in his desire to lead North Korea out of a spiraling
confrontation with the United States.

The president claimed two immediate results from the summit meeting. He
said Mr. Kim volunteered to dismantle a facility that tests engines for
ballistic missiles. For his part, the president agreed to halt joint
military exercises with South Korea, part of what the South Korean
government views as a bulwark of its alliance with the United States.

Mr. Trump said the exercises --- he referred to them as ``war games''
--- were costly and needlessly provocative to North Korea.

American officials said the vague language in the statement did not mean
the United States had softened its denuclearization demand. Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo is to resume negotiations with the North Koreans next
week on the details.

But there is no time frame for those negotiations. And if the North
Koreans refused to offer concessions under the pressure of a looming
summit meeting --- one that Mr. Kim eagerly wanted --- it is unclear why
they would do so now, especially with Mr. Trump acknowledging that it
will take a long time for North Korea to disarm.

The president has pivoted almost entirely from sticks to carrots on
North Korea. Before his news conference, White House aides showed a
short film, which Mr. Trump had commissioned and screened for Mr. Kim on
an iPad during their meeting. With a thumping soundtrack and images of
the two leaders as benevolent peacemakers, the video offered an
inspirational view of a thriving North Korea, if only it would forsake
its nuclear weapons.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/world/13summit-livebriefing-promo/13summit-livebriefing-promo-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

``I think he loved it,'' Mr. Trump said.

North Korea, he said, might choose not to invest in high-speed trains
and other technological marvels displayed in the film. But at the least,
it should exploit its strategic location and idyllic beaches, which Mr.
Trump said could be lined with hotels and condos instead of artillery
batteries.

``Think of it from the real estate perspective,'' the property
developer-turned-president said. ``South Korea and China --- and they
own the land in the middle.''

Loose and ebullient, Mr. Trump took questions for 75 minutes, as his
aides fidgeted in their chairs. It seemed a fitting end to a summit
meeting that, from the start, resembled a reality TV show more than a
serious diplomatic exercise. Mr. Kim was overheard remarking to Mr.
Trump that people would think they were watching a science fiction
movie.

Or, more precisely, a buddy movie: After a formal introduction, the two
quickly seemed at ease with each other. Mr. Trump put a hand on Mr.
Kim's back as they walked on a balcony of the hotel where the meeting
was held. Mr. Kim spun a pair of reading glasses in his hand and smiled
occasionally as he listened to the president.

Later, Mr. Trump heaped praise on Mr. Kim, saying he was talented, loved
his country and knew more about its nuclear program than the people who
actually ran it.

Mr. Trump said he raised North Korea's human-rights abuses with Mr. Kim,
though it was hardly a priority. ``It is a rough situation over there,''
he acknowledged, but then added, ``It's rough in a lot of places.''

At one point, Mr. Trump took a quick detour to show Mr. Kim his armored
limousine, ``the Beast,'' which is flown around the world on a military
cargo plane. Mr. Kim had to borrow a Chinese jet to get to Singapore.

For all of Mr. Trump's showmanship, however, Mr. Yun and other
diplomatic veterans who have dealt with North Korea said it was Mr. Kim
who emerged from the meeting as the winner. As the leaders signed the
joint statement, Mr. Kim declared that they had ``decided to leave the
past behind.''

But on Wednesday, North Korea's official state media offered a very
familiar formulation, saying that Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim had agreed that
the two sides should take ``step-by-step and simultaneous'' actions,
rather than insisting on North Korea's quick unilateral nuclear
disarmament.

It also said that Mr. Trump had expressed his intention to ``lift
sanctions'' against the North when relations improved.

Among the most glaring omissions in the joint statement after the summit
meeting, said Daniel R. Russel, a former diplomat who worked on North
Korea for President Barack Obama, was the lack of reference to North
Korea's ballistic missiles. Mr. Kim's offer to destroy the testing
facility came as a late add-on, according to the president.

The statement was similarly vague about what security guarantees the
United States would offer North Korea. Reducing the number of American
troops in South Korea is not currently on the table, Mr. Trump said. But
he repeated his desire to bring troops back from Korea and other distant
deployments.

He also repeated his determination to keep imposing sanctions on the
North until it abandons nuclear weapons. But he confirmed that China,
the North's largest trading partner, had eased a clampdown on
cross-border trade in recent weeks --- a reversal he attributed partly
to the trade tensions between China and the United States.

Still, the president said he did not plan to return to bellicose threats
like ``fire and fury,'' which fueled tensions last year and helped drive
South Korea to seek a diplomatic overture to the North.

Appearing to accept the views of his predecessors, as well as most of
his own military commanders, Mr. Trump said he could not imagine a war
in a country where the largest city, Seoul, is only 35 miles from the
border where the conflict would likely erupt.

For Mr. Trump, averting such massive bloodshed justified the risk of
meeting with Mr. Kim. He bridled at critics who said he had elevated a
brutal dictator by agreeing to meet, and had extracted little in return.

``If I have to say I'm sitting on a stage with Chairman Kim and that
gets us to save 30 million lives --- it could be more than that --- I'm
willing to sit on the stage,'' Mr. Trump said. ``I'm willing to travel
to Singapore.''

Still, as ever, the president hedged his bets.

``I think, honestly, I think he's going to do these things,'' Mr. Trump
said. ``I may be wrong. I mean, I may stand before you in six months and
say `Hey, I was wrong.' I don't know that I'll ever admit that, but I'll
find some kind of excuse.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
