Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Jay Inslee Endorses Biden,
Citing Private Conversations on Climate Policy

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Y2dEIN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{jay-inslee-endorses-biden-citing-private-conversations-on-climate-policy}{%
\section{Jay Inslee Endorses Biden, Citing Private Conversations on
Climate
Policy}\label{jay-inslee-endorses-biden-citing-private-conversations-on-climate-policy}}

The governor of Washington State, one of the Democratic Party's most
prominent environmentalists, urged progressives to get on board with the
presumptive presidential nominee's campaign.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/22/us/politics/22inslee/merlin_171345549_b97dc880-7742-44c2-8035-78afb3de54ff-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington State, one of the Democratic Party's most
prominent environmentalists, endorsed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} for president on Wednesday after extensive private
conversations in which Mr. Biden signaled he would make fighting climate
change a central cause of his administration.

Mr. Inslee, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/21/us/politics/jay-inslee-2020-campaign.html}{mounted
a long-shot presidential campaign} of his own last year, said in an
interview that he had spoken repeatedly to Mr. Biden in recent weeks and
came away convinced that the former vice president was preparing to
greatly expand his policy proposals for reducing carbon emissions and
promoting renewable energy.

Though he and Mr. Biden clashed early in the primary season, Mr. Inslee
said he was confident that Mr. Biden was ``willing to aim faster and
higher'' on climate policy than he had indicated at that stage. Mr.
Inslee said his aides were consulting with Mr. Biden's campaign about
new components to his environmental agenda.

``I am convinced, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that this will be a
major driving force of his administration,'' Mr. Inslee said. ``I think
what you're going to see is an increased commitment to some shorter-term
actions and he's been very open to that.''

Mr. Inslee's endorsement comes as little surprise, given Mr. Biden's
status as the presumptive Democratic nominee. The Biden campaign has
rolled out a series of valuable endorsements over the past few weeks, a
phase of the campaign in which public activity has been strictly limited
by the coronavirus outbreak. Last week, endorsement videos from former
President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/us/politics/obama-endorses-biden.html}{Barack
Obama} and Senators
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/us/politics/bernie-sanders-joe-biden-endorsement.html}{Bernie
Sanders} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/15/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-endorse-biden.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} helped Mr. Biden stir Democratic enthusiasm and raise money
during a news cycle overwhelmed by the pandemic.

Mr. Inslee has been among the most prominent governors confronting the
crisis, ordering early lockdowns and other restrictions that have helped
limit the damage in Washington State to a fraction of the ruin inflicted
on New York,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/nyregion/new-york-coronavirus-response-delays.html}{where
public officials acted somewhat more slowly}. The emergency has also
brought Mr. Inslee into conflict with President Trump, whom Mr. Inslee
has criticized for his handling of the outbreak. Mr. Trump has answered
Mr. Inslee's criticism with heated personal and partisan attacks,
calling him a ``snake.''

But unlike some governors who have tried to mute their differences with
Mr. Trump while they are lobbying his administration for help in the
fight against coronavirus, Mr. Inslee made plain in the interview that
he intended to speak bluntly about what he saw as Mr. Trump's
deficiencies. He said the president had shown ``no empathy for anyone
but himself'' and had ``abused even Republican governors'' who expressed
dissatisfaction with the federal government's performance.

``I've had to deal with a totally dishonest person in the White House,''
Mr. Inslee said, predicting that Mr. Biden would be a better partner for
governors in both parties.

In addition to the endorsement, Mr. Inslee participated in another
ritual of Mr. Biden's lockdown-era campaign: On Tuesday, he recorded an
episode for Mr. Biden's podcast, ``Here's the Deal,'' which has
previously featured conversations with Senator Amy Klobuchar of
Minnesota and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. On the podcast, Mr.
Biden alluded to numerous private conversations about climate with Mr.
Inslee, as well as with former Vice President Al Gore; in his view, Mr.
Biden said, confronting the climate crisis represented an enormous
opportunity for the United States to create jobs ``generating a
fundamentally green infrastructure.''

Mr. Inslee's vote of confidence in Mr. Biden comes at a timely moment,
on the 50th occasion of Earth Day and as the former vice president
continues to face grumbling on the left about the scope of his announced
climate policies. While Mr. Biden has embraced a broad agenda to limit
emissions, progressives have long viewed his stated timeline ---
reducing emissions to net zero by 2050 --- as dangerously slow.

During one of the debates last year, Mr. Inslee was among those who
challenged Mr. Biden's plans as ``too little, too late.''

But Mr. Biden has shown signs recently of raising his governing
ambitions across the board, not only on climate, even adopting some of
the messages of former rivals like Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren in arguing
that the next president will have to seek much larger social and
economic change to help the country recover from the current crisis.

Mr. Inslee, who is seeking a third term as governor this November,
expressed little sympathy for reluctant liberals, urging them to get on
board with Mr. Biden as quickly as possible. Whatever their preferences
during primary season, Mr. Inslee said, Democrats should recognize that
Mr. Biden's candidacy represents ``a chance for the survival of life as
we know it.''

``The faster we get in harness together, the likelier it is we will
remove a man who has dedicated himself to deceit and rejection of
science,'' he said.

Mr. Inslee allowed that some of his enthusiasm for Mr. Biden stemmed
from factors besides policy, describing the former vice president as
open-minded and easy to connect with --- common sentiments among Mr.
Biden's former rivals who have aligned themselves with unusual speed
behind a candidate who not long ago seemed to be on the brink of defeat.

``I just enjoy talking to Joe Biden,'' Mr. Inslee said. ``Maybe that's
one of the reasons he's been successful as a leader.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 7, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall presidential campaign
    centered on Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{two
    pivotal states for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
