Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}Spain's Reopening Stumbles
as Virus Cases Rise Among Young People

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CJFQYp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9d2e0-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9f9f0-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9f9f1-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9f9f2-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9f9f3-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=1bd9f9f4-e3b4-11ea-86f8-efc84775e6d4}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{spains-reopening-stumbles-as-virus-cases-rise-among-young-people}{%
\section{Spain's Reopening Stumbles as Virus Cases Rise Among Young
People}\label{spains-reopening-stumbles-as-virus-cases-rise-among-young-people}}

Covid-19 outbreaks are putting Spain back under pressure, but this time
the focus is on younger people and the risk that they are unwittingly
spreading the virus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/23/world/23virus-spain01/23virus-spain01-articleLarge-v2.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-raphael-minder/author-raphael-minder-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/raphael-minder}{Raphael
Minder}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 23, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MADRID --- After already enjoying a long night of graduation
celebrations, a throng of young people poured into the Babylon
discothèque at 5 a.m. to continue partying in the southern Spanish city
of Córdoba.

Two weeks later, 91 people linked to the Babylon's 400 identified
partygoers have tested positive for the coronavirus and the regional
authorities are still struggling to trace all those who entered the club
that night, or who later came into contact with them.

Spain lifted a nationwide state of emergency on June 21 as it emerged
from a strict three-month lockdown imposed to gain control over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/world/europe/spain-coronavirus.html?searchResultPosition=150}{one
of Europe's worst} outbreaks. The rapid spread of the virus in Spain
left some 28,400 people dead by the official count --- almost surely
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/world/europe/coronoavirus-spain-death-toll.html?searchResultPosition=136}{understated}
--- with most of them over the age of 70.

Since then, new coronavirus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{have
quadrupled} --- now concentrated among young people --- as the left-wing
coalition government of Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez returned
responsibility for a safe reopening to Spain's regions. That has made
Spain a mosaic of new rules --- some less stringent or more loosely
enforced than others --- and an uneven patchwork of successes mixed with
alarming failures.

The country is now grappling with 224 local outbreaks, Spain's health
minister, Salvador Illa, told Parliament on Wednesday.

Several other European countries, from Portugal to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-reopening.html}{Germany},
have faced significant local outbreaks after coming out of lockdown, but
most of those were more limited in scale and snuffed out relatively
quickly. Authorities isolated pockets of new cases and traced those who
may have been exposed.

The resurgence in Spain has underscored not only the need for vigilance
as societies reopen, but also for supporting measures like additional
testing and contact tracing --- steps that Spain remains ill equipped to
carry out.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T13:40:30.090Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6a60a19d}{`Be
  adults': Universities in the U.S. are warning students about
  gatherings as they return to campus.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-191d44be}{South
  Korea threatens to detain people who obstruct virus-control efforts.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/21/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

The result is that hundreds of thousands of people in various parts of
the country have been forced to return to temporary lockdowns, notably
in the northeastern region of Catalonia, an area especially hard-hit
before.

But public tolerance for new lockdowns may prove lower than in March and
April, when the nationwide quarantines were largely obeyed but only
grudgingly accepted.

Young people in particular are chafing at the restrictions, especially
because they are less likely to become gravely ill as a result of
infection. While the demographic shift toward young people has reduced
the risk that Spain's health care sector will once more get saturated
with Covid-19 patients, as happened in late March, it has raised a new
concern about asymptomatic transmissions, which make the need for
testing all the more pressing.

Yet health experts are warning that Spain continues to fall short in
terms of testing for Covid-19.

``Spain should now design a specific strategy to identify asymptomatic
patients,'' Helena Legido-Quigley, an associate professor of public
health at the University of Singapore. Overall, she added, ``testing
capacity and contact tracing could be much improved'' in Spain.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/23/world/23virus-spain002/merlin_174581244_85ab83d5-5e6b-4591-aae5-127bd9259535-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Illa, Spain's health minister, warned recently that his
Socialist-led coalition government was ready to reactivate Spain's state
of emergency if it became clear that regions were not able to control
the latest outbreaks.

But Mr. Illa forms parts of a fragile minority government that has faced
fierce criticism from opposition parties over the government's response
to the pandemic.

This week, María Jesús Montero, the minister who is the government's
spokeswoman, sent a special message of caution to ``people who are
younger, because some of the outbreaks are linked to the behavior in
nightlife venues or places where a large number of people gather.''

In the case of Catalonia, which has had one of the worst resurgences of
the virus, the situation has been complicated by disagreement between
politicians and local judges over who has the authority to put people
back under lockdown.

Last week, the Catalan regional leader, Quim Torra, urged, rather than
ordered, about three million people living around Barcelona to stay
indoors and ``demonstrate that we are a society of solidarity.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Many people ignored Mr. Torra's recommendation, however, and the local
police were even forced to close some of Barcelona's
\href{https://www.lavanguardia.com/local/barcelona/20200719/482405928973/barcelona-cierre-playas-covid19-coronavirus.html}{packed
beaches} over the weekend because of the risk of infection.

While the most serious outbreaks have recently occurred in northeastern
Spain, only two of Spain's 17 regions --- Madrid and the Canary Islands
--- have not reimposed requirements to wear face masks at all times
outdoors.

Enforcement has proved to be complicated, not only at outdoor gatherings
but also in places like nightclubs that have been allowed to reopen
under occupancy limits.

In Córdoba, there are conflicting accounts of what happened in the
Babylon club, which was restricted to 40 percent of its 500-person
capacity to allow social distancing. Regional officials say they have
identified about 400 people who went to the club that night, though its
management has insisted that no more than
\href{https://www.eldiadecordoba.es/cordoba/Babylonia-defiende-cumplio-fiestas-covid-19_0_1483652062.html}{140}were
inside at any one moment. The club is now closed while an investigation
continues.

Some regions of Spain are reporting a particularly strong uptick in the
number of cases among adolescents. In the northern region of Aragón,
where authorities said this week that they could contain the outbreaks
without a return to lockdown, the rate of infection rose sevenfold in
one month among people tested between
\href{https://www.elperiodicodearagon.com/noticias/aragon/incidencia-virus-jovenes-10-19-anos-multiplica-siete_1428795.html}{ages
10} and 19.

Some recent outbreaks have been linked to vulnerable sectors of society,
notably seasonal fruit pickers in northeastern Spain, who are often
migrant workers.

In recent days, Spanish hoteliers and travel operators have reported
more
\href{https://www.lavanguardia.com/economia/20200723/482471747725/rebrotes-gestion-frenan-seco-remontada-turistica.html}{booking
cancellations} since the new outbreaks and lockdowns were announced. The
latest outbreaks could threaten cross-border travel in Europe, at a time
when some
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/19/world/europe/tourism-virus-europe.html}{tourism
destinations} are already suffering because airlines have only reopened
some of their routes.

Last week, Jean Castex, the new French prime minister, said his
government was monitoring the situation in neighboring Catalonia to
decide whether France's border with Spain should
\href{https://www.euroweeklynews.com/2020/07/18/breaking-france-in-crisis-talks-with-spain}{be
kept open.}

On Wednesday, Reyes Maroto, the Spanish tourism minister, urged France
not to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/reuters/2020/07/22/world/europe/22reuters-health-coronavirus-spain.html}{close}
the border. ``We are cohabiting with the virus, but this does not mean
that we cannot travel and recover some kind of normalcy,'' Ms. Maroto
told a conference in Madrid.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
