Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}N.Y. Attorney General Asks
Judge to Order Eric Trump's Testimony

\url{https://nyti.ms/3laPswO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ny-attorney-general-asks-judge-to-order-eric-trumps-testimony}{%
\section{N.Y. Attorney General Asks Judge to Order Eric Trump's
Testimony}\label{ny-attorney-general-asks-judge-to-order-eric-trumps-testimony}}

The Trump Organization has stalled a state inquiry into the financing of
four properties for months, Attorney General Letitia James said in court
papers.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/24/nyregion/24nytrump/merlin_175905006_19a67640-b97c-44c9-96bc-26a29007545f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-william-k-rashbaum/author-william-k-rashbaum-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/danny-hakim}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/18/multimedia/author-danny-hakim/author-danny-hakim-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/danny-hakim}{Danny Hakim}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The New York State attorney general's office has stepped up its inquiry
into whether President Trump and the Trump Organization committed fraud
by overstating assets to get loans and tax benefits, asking a judge to
order Eric Trump to answer questions under oath and the company to hand
over documents, court papers show.

Mr. Trump, who is President Trump's son and an executive vice president
of the company, abruptly canceled an interview with the attorney
general's office last month, and last week the Trump Organization told
the office that the company and its lawyers would not comply with seven
subpoenas related to the investigation.

In court papers made public on Monday, the state attorney general,
Letitia James, asked a State Supreme Court judge in Manhattan to compel
the company and Eric Trump to cooperate. Ms. James is seeking to
determine if President Trump and his business improperly inflated his
assets ``to secure loans and obtain economic and tax benefits,'' the
filing said.

The new request comes as President Trump faces legal actions on other
fronts. The Manhattan district attorney's office has suggested in court
filings that it is investigating
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{possible
bank and insurance fraud} by the president and the Trump Organization,
and is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html?searchResultPosition=2}{fighting
in federal court to obtain his tax returns}.

The court documents released on Monday reflected concerns within the
Trump Organization that the attorney general's civil inquiry could
develop into a criminal investigation. Two days before Eric Trump was
scheduled to answer questions under oath, the company canceled the
session, telling the office it was concerned that investigation was
going ``beyond the scope'' of a civil inquiry, the papers said.

The next day, the attorney general's office assured the Trump
Organization that it had not referred the case to ``another criminal law
enforcement agency.''

Still, the new documents revealed that the attorney general was not only
asking questions about representations Mr. Trump and his company made to
banks, but also about how they reported more than \$120 million, mostly
in forgiven debt, to tax authorities at the city, state and federal
level.

If Ms. James finds evidence of criminal offenses, she may refer the case
to another law enforcement agency or ask Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New
York to authorize her office to open a criminal investigation.

Eric Trump appeared defiant on Monday, writing
\href{https://twitter.com/EricTrump/status/1297981193841979394}{on
Twitter several hours after the documents were made public} that Ms.
James ``has pledged to take my father down from the moment she ran for
office.''

``This is the highest level of prosecutorial misconduct --- purposely
dropped on the eve of the Republican Convention for political points,''
he said.

For her part, Ms. James wrote on Twitter earlier in the day that Mr.
Trump's company had failed to comply with subpoenas and had obstructed
the investigation. ``The Trump Organization has stalled, withheld
documents, and instructed witnesses, including Eric Trump, to refuse to
answer questions under oath,'' she said.

The attorney general's new filings said the Trump Organization had
refused to turn over thousands of documents. The timing of the request
to enforce the subpoenas was prompted by the Trump Organization's
decision last week not to comply, the papers said.

The investigation began in March 2019 after President Trump's former
personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/27/business/donald-trump-buffalo-bills-deutsche-bank.html}{told
Congress} that the president had inflated his assets in financial
statements to banks when he was seeking loans and had understated them
to reduce his real estate taxes.

The office initially subpoenaed records from two of the Trump
Organization's lenders, Deutsche Bank and Investors Bank, seeking loan
records for four of the company's big projects and a failed effort to
buy the Buffalo Bills of the N.F.L. in 2014.

The company initially provided some information and asked the attorney
general not to seek a similar court order eight months ago, after it
failed to turn over information on a particular property.

The Trump Organization's chief legal officer, Alan Garten, said in a
statement that the company had done nothing wrong and had ``tried to
cooperate in good faith with the investigation at every turn.''

He accused Ms. James of ``continued harassment of the company as we
approach the election'' and said the timing of motion, just before the
Republican National Convention, ``once again confirms that this
investigation is all about politics.''

The White House declined to comment.

The attorney general's office is reviewing a number of Trump properties,
including several that were raised in Mr. Cohen's congressional
testimony. The Seven Springs estate in Westchester County, N.Y., the
Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago, 40 Wall Street in Lower
Manhattan and the Trump National Golf Club, Los Angeles were the subject
of the subpoenas.

The attorney general's office has also asked the judge to order two
lawyers to sit for interviews under oath: Charles Martabano, a land-use
lawyer who does work for the Trump Organization, and Sheri A. Dillon,
who has represented President Trump and his company on tax matters.

The office asked the judge to order Ms. Dillon's firm --- Morgan, Lewis
\& Bockius --- to comply with a subpoena, along with the Trump
Organization, two related entities that own Trump properties, and Seven
Springs LLC, which owns the Westchester County estate.

One transaction the attorney general's office is reviewing is a 2010
debt restructuring for the Trump hotel and tower in Chicago, when the
Fortress Credit Corporation forgave debt worth more than \$100 million.

The office said the Trump Organization had thwarted its efforts to
determine how that money was reflected on its tax filings, and whether
it was recognized as income, as the law in most instances requires.

The attorney general's office also accused the Trump Organization of
withholding records related to how a \$21.1 million conservation
easement at the Seven Springs estate was reported to tax authorities.

The valuation of the estate came into question last year after Mr.
Cohen's testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Reform. Mr.
Trump purchased it for \$7.5 million in 1996, but then valued it at
\$291 million on his 2012 balance sheet. Six years later, in a federal
ethics filing, he said it was worth no more than \$50 million.

Mr. Cohen also told the committee that President Trump had knowingly
inflated the value of his assets to show a net worth of as much as \$8.7
billion in financial documents.

``It was my experience that Mr. Trump inflated his total assets when it
served his purposes, such as trying to be listed among the wealthiest
people in Forbes, and deflated his assets to reduce his real estate
taxes,'' Mr. Cohen said in
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2019/02/27/politics/michael-cohen-trump-tax-returns-financials/index.html}{his
testimony}.

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
