Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Russian Intelligence Hackers
Are Back, Microsoft Warns, Aiming at Officials of Both Parties

\url{https://nyti.ms/32gAcHa}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{russian-intelligence-hackers-are-back-microsoft-warns-aiming-at-officials-of-both-parties}{%
\section{Russian Intelligence Hackers Are Back, Microsoft Warns, Aiming
at Officials of Both
Parties}\label{russian-intelligence-hackers-are-back-microsoft-warns-aiming-at-officials-of-both-parties}}

China is also growing more adept at targeting campaign workers. But
contrary to Trump administration warnings, Beijing is mostly aiming at
Biden campaign officials.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10dc-electionhacking/merlin_155893821_c137eced-f649-498f-9c16-6f7eb21be1b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-david-e-sanger/author-david-e-sanger-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicole-perlroth}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-nicole-perlroth/author-nicole-perlroth-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{David E.
Sanger} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicole-perlroth}{Nicole
Perlroth}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200911/microsoft-election-hacking/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/usa/20200911/microsoft-election-hacking/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

The Russian military intelligence unit that attacked the Democratic
National Committee four years ago is back with a series of new, more
stealthy hacks aimed at campaign staff members, consultants and think
tanks associated with both Democrats and Republicans.

That warning was issued on Thursday by the Microsoft Corporation, in an
assessment that is far more detailed than any yet made public by
American intelligence agencies.

The findings come one day after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/homeland-security-russia-trump.html}{a
government whistle-blower claimed} that officials at the White House and
the Department of Homeland Security suppressed intelligence concerning
Russia's continuing interference because it ``made the president look
bad,'' and instructed government analysts to instead focus on
interference by China and Iran.

Microsoft did find that Chinese and Iranian hackers have been active ---
but often not in the way President Trump and his aides have suggested.

Federal officials insisted that the Microsoft report was consistent with
their own warnings, which named Russia, China and Iran as three nations
seeking to gather information from the campaigns, and perhaps try to
influence the outcome. But the most recent assessment by the director of
national intelligence, last month, also said China preferred that former
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. win the 2020 election.

The Microsoft assessment may have complicated that finding because it
found that Chinese hackers focused their attacks on the private email
accounts of Mr. Biden's campaign staff members, along with a range of
other prominent people in academia and the national security
establishment, including groups like the Atlantic Council and the
Stimson Center.

Notably, only one of the Chinese targets detected by Microsoft was
affiliated with Mr. Trump, a former administration official whom
Microsoft declined to name.

Firms like Microsoft and Google, because they sit atop global networks,
have a front-seat view of suspicious activity, and increasing motivation
to make it public to warn their customers. The result, inevitably, is a
tumble of reports from the private sector, which government intelligence
officials will be forced to assess, along with their own findings.

Thea McDonald, the deputy national press secretary for the Trump
campaign, said: ``We are a large target, so it is not surprising to see
malicious activity directed at the campaign or our staff. We work
closely with our partners, Microsoft and others, to mitigate these
threats.'' She would not comment on specific cybersecurity measures the
campaign was taking.

The Biden campaign said that it was ``aware of reports from Microsoft
that a foreign actor has made unsuccessful attempts to access the
noncampaign email accounts of individuals affiliated with the
campaign,'' and that it was preparing for the inevitable onslaught of
attacks in the coming weeks. While the campaign did not confirm the
company's reporting, it has taken issue with the director of national
intelligence's assessment, issued several weeks ago, that Chinese
leaders prefer Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump.

The Microsoft investigation also concluded that hackers related to
Russia's G.R.U., the military intelligence unit that oversaw the ``hack
and leak'' efforts in 2016 that made emails from Hillary Clinton's
campaign public, were going to new lengths to hide their tracks. They
are routing some of the attacks through Tor, a service that conceals the
attackers' whereabouts and identity, which slowed the effort to identify
the hackers.

So far, Microsoft officials said they found no evidence that hacking
efforts this year were successful, but corporate officials noted that
they had limited vision into Russia's overall operations. They cannot
say definitively that no materials were stolen, or what Russia's
motivations may be. That, they said, was the role of U.S. intelligence
officials.

Microsoft's findings come just two weeks after the director of national
intelligence, John Ratcliffe, declared that he would no longer let
intelligence agencies give detailed, in-person briefings about election
interference to Congress. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/us/politics/election-security-intelligence-briefings-congress.html}{said
the restrictions were because of leaks}.

In a statement, Christopher Krebs, who directs the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency at the Department of Homeland Security,
said, ``We are aware that Microsoft detected attempts to compromise
email accounts of people and organizations associated with the upcoming
election.''

Mr. Krebs noted that ``none are involved in maintaining or operating
voting infrastructure and there was no identified impact on election
systems.'' He also said that the company's ``announcement is consistent
with earlier statements by the intelligence community on a range of
malicious cyberactivities targeting the 2020 campaign and reinforces
that this is an all-of-nation effort to defend democracy.''

Mr. Krebs, who was a Microsoft executive before joining the Trump
administration, said his agency was releasing on Thursday ``guidance for
improving cyberdefenses against account compromise attacks.''

There is no question that Microsoft's assessment complicates the
administration's narrative that China is a bigger threat to U.S.
elections than Russia, as both the national security adviser, Robert C.
O'Brien, and Attorney General William P. Barr
\href{https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2020/09/02/china-russia-election-threat-attorney-general-bill-barr-blitzer-tsr-vpx.cnn}{said
in interviews last week}.

And hours after his own Treasury Department announced fresh sanctions
for election interference, Mr. Trump seemed to claim Moscow's
involvement was a hoax. ``What about China?'' he said at a campaign
rally on Thursday night. ``What about other countries? It's always
Russia, Russia, Russia. They're at it again.''

The report concludes that the Russian military intelligence unit has
only accelerated its attacks, even after a series of financial
sanctions, indictments of Russian intelligence officers and retaliatory
cyberstrikes by United States Cyber Command
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/23/us/politics/russian-hacking-usa-cyber-command.html}{before
the 2018 midterm elections}.

Microsoft's researchers concluded that the G.R.U. hacking unit ---
alternatively known as Fancy Bear, APT 28 or Strontium to different
industry researchers --- has been aggressively hacking the personal
email accounts of American politicians, campaigns staff members and
consultants on both sides of the aisle.

In just the two weeks between Aug. 18 and Sept. 3, the group targeted
6,912 email accounts at 28 organizations, obfuscating the attacks
through Tor.

Microsoft's finding that it is Mr. Biden --- not Mr. Trump --- whom
Chinese hackers are targeting also complicates a narrative pushed by the
White House that China is interfering in the 2020 election to help the
former vice president's campaign.

While the Biden campaign said it would not comment on the specifics of
the Microsoft findings, it disputed the American intelligence
assessment, arguing that China's preference in the election was clear:
the re-election of Mr. Trump.

``There are very obvious reasons China's leadership would prefer four
more years of President Trump,'' said Antony J. Blinken, Mr. Biden's
longtime foreign policy adviser and a former deputy secretary of state.
``He's helped China advance its most important strategic goals:
weakening American alliances; leaving a vacuum in the world for China to
fill; giving Beijing a green light to trample human rights in Xinjiang
and democracy in Hong Kong; and debasing our own democracy and so
reducing its appeal.''

``He also publicly echoed their propaganda downplaying Covid-19 while
privately admitting how dangerous it was,'' he said. ``All of this
benefits China at the expense of our nation.''

Currently, there are sharp and telling differences between the Russians
and the Chinese.

China's attack on Mr. Biden's campaign appears to be an attempt at
standard espionage, similar to its hacking of the presidential
candidates John McCain and Barack Obama in 2008, when Chinese spies
gained access to internal position papers and emails of top campaign
advisers for both candidates. Microsoft's findings echo those of Google
researchers last spring, who
\href{https://twitter.com/ShaneHuntley/status/1268589219842109440?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1268589219842109440\%7Ctwgr\%5Eshare_3\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Ftechcrunch.com\%2F2020\%2F06\%2F04\%2Fgoogle-china-iran-trump-biden\%2F}{determined
that the same Chinese group} was targeting Mr. Biden's campaign.

Microsoft also said on Thursday that Iran's hackers have continued to
target Mr. Trump's campaign, as the company
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/04/technology/iranian-campaign-hackers-microsoft.html}{first
warned last October}, albeit with limited success. Microsoft has managed
to take control of 155 of the web domains that Iran is using for its
attacks.

But Iran has remained persistent. Between May and June, according to
Microsoft investigators, Iran's hackers went into overdrive trying to
break into the personal email accounts of Trump administration officials
and campaign officials, apparently without success.

In terms of sophistication, security researchers overwhelmingly say it
is Russia's G.R.U. hackers who present the gravest threat.

``Multiple cyberespionage actors are targeting organizations associated
with the upcoming election, but we remain most concerned about Russian
military intelligence, who we believe poses the greatest threat to the
U.S. democratic process,'' said John Hultquist, the director of
intelligence analysis at FireEye, which has worked with both parties.
``The G.R.U. routinely violates international norms and has not been
dissuaded by indictments and other attempts to halt their malicious
activity.''

Just before Microsoft's announcement on Thursday, the Treasury
Department
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/sanctions-russia-ukraine-election-interference.html}{announced
new sanctions} on three Russians and a member of Ukraine's Parliament
--- who was described as a Russian agent --- for their efforts to
influence the upcoming election.

``Russia has used a wide range of influence methods and actors to target
our electoral process, including targeting U.S. presidential
candidates,'' the department said in a statement.

But the whistle-blower complaint made public on Wednesday, with its
allegation that federal intelligence analysts were told to edit out
references to Russian interference, has put the integrity of the
government's own assessments in doubt. The complaint says that in May,
Mr. O'Brien instructed Chad Wolf, the acting secretary of homeland
security, to stop providing intelligence assessments on the threat of
Russian interference and report instead on China and Iran.

``If that whistle-blower report is true, the people responsible are
violating their oath of office,'' said Thomas P. Bossert, Mr. Trump's
first homeland security adviser. ``Short of war, the best way to defeat
a foreign influence operation is to expose it publicly. Sanctions alone
aren't going to stop Putin from messing with U.S. elections.''

Intelligence officials privately
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/20/us/politics/russian-interference-trump-democrats.html?searchResultPosition=1}{warned
the White House and lawmakers} in February that Russia was actively
working to re-elect Mr. Trump and divide Democrats by supporting Senator
Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The Trump administration has contended that
it has been tough on Russia, despite Mr. Trump's refusal to criticize
President Vladimir V. Putin and its latest efforts to downplay Moscow's
recent interference.

For two years now, Mr. Trump has been unwilling to lead meetings on
election security related to Russia. In April 2019, The New York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/24/us/politics/russia-2020-election-trump.html}{reported
that Kirstjen Nielsen}, then the homeland security secretary, was
instructed not to hold meetings in Mr. Trump's presence describing the
concerns about renewed Russian interference. Ms. Nielsen was soon forced
to resign.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
