Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Now We Know What the
President Knew

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hfCRp3}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

On Politics With Lisa Lerer

\hypertarget{now-we-know-what-the-president-knew}{%
\section{Now We Know What the President
Knew}\label{now-we-know-what-the-president-knew}}

The revelations in Bob Woodward's book about President Trump also showed
us something about the state of the Washington establishment.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/11/us/politics/author-lisa-lerer/lisa-lerer-headshot-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-lerer}{Lisa Lerer}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Hi. Welcome to}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/on-politics}{\emph{On
Politics}}\emph{, your guide to the day in national politics. I'm Lisa
Lerer, your host.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}} \emph{to get On Politics in your inbox every weekday.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/20/us/onpolitics-siren/onpolitics-siren-articleLarge.gif?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Is anything not in flames right now?

I spent much of Wednesday scrolling through the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/pictures-photos-california-fires.html}{apocalyptic
photos} coming out of the West Coast. Instagram shots of friends' homes
backlit by orange darkness, video of others driving across the Golden
Gate Bridge under eerie orange skies. The images were surreal.

Meanwhile, in Washington, another unsettling fire burned.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/woodward-trump-book-virus.html}{A
bombshell report} from a new book by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/trump-woodward.html}{Bob
Woodward} provided evidence backing up
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/11/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-response.html}{earlier
reporting}: that the president knowingly downplayed the ``deadly stuff''
of the coronavirus for months. Mr. Trump's own words and Mr. Woodward's
reporting show that the president misled the public about the scale of
the threat as he pressured governors to keep their states open and
stoked protests against their restrictions.

After four years, it's easy to be inured to the chaos coming from the
White House. This week alone, the president described his military
leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html}{as
war profiteers} and claimed, yet again, that
``\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1304060630656311296}{Anarchists,
Agitators, Looters}'' were on the verge of invading the suburbs.

But the comments that Mr. Woodward reports, as Joe Biden and other
Democrats have noted with outrage, stand out.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{More
than 191,000 Americans} have died of a virus the president admits he
knew was deadly. While the exact estimates vary, multiple
\href{https://www.statnews.com/2020/06/19/faster-response-prevented-most-us-covid-19-deaths/}{studies}
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.15.20103655v1.full.pdf}{have
found} that taking protective measures earlier would have saved tens of
thousands of lives.

In different times, Mr. Trump's admission would have prompted an
investigation ---
\href{https://www.brennancenter.org/our-work/analysis-opinion/curious-history-what-did-president-know-and-when-did-he-know-it}{what
did the president know, and when did he know it?} --- and maybe even
calls for his resignation.

Now, no one expects any serious response from Washington. After failing
to remove Mr. Trump last winter, Democrats are focused on electoral
victories in November. Republicans generally save their critiques for
anonymous media reports or to be monetized in best-selling books, as
they attempt to rehabilitate their image after Mr. Trump turns out to be
the kind of leader in private that his comments reveal in public.

In an interview on Fox News Wednesday, Mr. Trump said he misled
Americans because he didn't want to ``create panic'' --- a concern he
doesn't seem to have about his baseless warnings of suburban anarchy, or
his years of speeches and ads depicting scenes of violence, disaster and
economic carnage perpetrated by his Democratic enemies.

If anyone still believes the president and his allies are playing some
kind of 3-D political chess where every move is plotted, the publication
of this book should finally put that idea to rest. Sure, no president
can resist the lure of the legendary Mr. Woodward. But past
administrations heavily managed their interactions with him, knowing his
track record for unflattering portrayals. Certainly, they didn't free
associate in recorded late-night chat sessions.

Yet, even Mr. Woodward doesn't escape this political moment unscathed.

The renowned journalist is a totem of the Washington establishment. He
believes in the lofty ideals of the post-Watergate era that his most
famous reporting helped usher into our politics. Like character. And
leadership. And ethics.

That is neither this time nor this president.
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/media/should-bob-woodward-have-reported-trumps-virus-revelations-sooner-heres-how-he-defends-his-decision/2020/09/09/6bd7fc32-f2d1-11ea-b796-2dd09962649c_story.html?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-high_sullivan-620pm\%3Ahomepage\%2Fstory-ans\&_ga=2.233865310.1105897825.1599753802-2110227108.1596023352}{The
debate}
\href{https://apnews.com/99916044401d8f8e24eb7bedfec1d5d2}{surrounding
whether} Mr. Woodward should have disclosed Mr. Trump's admissions
earlier, given the pain of the virus and the erratic nature of the
president he was covering, is valid.

But Mr. Woodward must grapple with larger questions about his worldview,
as well.

As my Times colleague Jennifer Szalai wrote in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/books/review-rage-donald-trump-bob-woodward.html}{her
review of the book}, the 77-year-old reporter is rooted in an
``old-school establishment'' that asks of the president ``windy,
high-minded questions like `What are your priorities?''' as they flatter
those around him for information.

When everything is burning, perhaps the questions need to be more basic.
Is it wrong to withhold information as hundreds of thousands of
Americans die? And what responsibility for those deaths is borne by
those who enable Mr. Trump's behavior?

We don't know how or when this fire will burn out. Or whether anything
resembling Mr. Woodward's Washington will be left in the ashes.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\textbf{Drop us a line!}

Image

\emph{We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We'll try to
answer it. Have a comment? We're all ears. Email us at}
\href{mailto:onpolitics@NYTimes.com}{\emph{onpolitics@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{from-opinion-qanon-is-coming-and-no-one-is-at-the-gate}{%
\subsection{From Opinion: QAnon is coming and no one is at the
gate}\label{from-opinion-qanon-is-coming-and-no-one-is-at-the-gate}}

Image

What is going on with QAnon, the false conspiracy theory that appears to
be taking hold among some of President Trump's most devoted followers?

In a Times Op-Ed, the researcher Annie Kelly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/opinion/qanon-women-conspiracy.html}{analyzes}
how QAnon spreads and why it is finding an audience with so many women.
Ms. Kelly reports that among the female adherents she interviewed at a
QAnon rally, ``many talked about how they had come out of a sense of
maternal duty to protect the innocent.'' That corresponds to a founding
tenet of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/what-is-qanon.html}{conspiracy
theory}, that there's a ``cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles who are
plotting against Mr. Trump while operating a global child
sex-trafficking ring.''

``President Trump has flirted with the convoluted QAnon conspiracy
theory for months,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/opinion/trump-qanon-birchers.html}{writes}
Geoffrey Kabaservice in another Times Op-Ed. ``Over 70 QAnon supporters
have run for Congress as Republicans this year,'' Mr. Kabaservice notes,
and Mr. Trump and some in the House Republican Conference have embraced
the theory's adherents.

Times columnist Jamelle Bouie
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/opinion/the-conspiracist-in-chief-will-save-us-all.html}{points
out} that one QAnon adherent, Marjorie Taylor Greene, ``won 57 percent
of the vote in the August runoff election for Georgia's heavily
Republican 14th Congressional District.'' That means she'll almost
certainly win the general election.

Mr. Kabaservice argues that the threat posed to the Republican Party by
QAnon followers is akin to the threat it faced in the late 1950s and
'60s from the John Birch Society. Influential party leaders need to
forcefully eject QAnon and its followers from the party, as they had
with the Birchers, he says, but ``today there are no gatekeepers of
similar stature on the political right.''

Ms. Kelly adds that ``Our answer must be a balance of empathy for those
who have been drawn in by QAnon's seductive message, coupled with a firm
rejection of its lies.''

\emph{--- Adam Rubenstein}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{-seriously}{%
\subsection{\ldots{} Seriously}\label{-seriously}}

\href{https://www.seacoastonline.com/news/20200909/exeter-woman-votes-topless-after-anti-trump-shirt-disallowed}{Area
Woman Votes Topless}

\begin{quote}
``She took it off so fast, no one had time to react so the whole place
just went, `woah,' and she walked away, and I let her vote. She could've
just gone into the hallway and turned it inside-out.''
\end{quote}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Thanks for reading. On Politics is your guide to the political
news cycle, delivering clarity from the chaos.}

\emph{On Politics is also available as a newsletter.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics}{\emph{Sign
up here}} \emph{to get it delivered to your inbox.}

\emph{Is there anything you think we're missing? Anything you want to
see more of? We'd love to hear from you. Email us at}
\href{mailto:onpolitics@NYTimes.com}{\emph{onpolitics@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
