Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}`Border Security Is Also
Health Security,' Trump Says at Rally as Coronavirus Fears Grow

\url{https://nyti.ms/3cikCOp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{border-security-is-also-health-security-trump-says-at-rally-as-coronavirus-fears-grow}{%
\section{`Border Security Is Also Health Security,' Trump Says at Rally
as Coronavirus Fears
Grow}\label{border-security-is-also-health-security-trump-says-at-rally-as-coronavirus-fears-grow}}

While members of his administration tried to convey a calm and steady
response, President Trump hosted another free-form political rally where
he accused his enemies of stoking panic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/28/us/28dc-trumprally/28dc-trumprally-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-katie-rogers/author-katie-rogers-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-rogers}{Katie
Rogers}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. --- Larry Kudlow, the president's chief economic
adviser, stood in the White House briefing room on Friday urging the
public --- and the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/28/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus.html}{plunging
financial markets} --- not to panic over the coronavirus outbreak, while
Vice President Mike Pence spread a similar message to officials and
residents at an event in Florida.

Later, as the authorities
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/28/world/coronavirus-update.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-37d1b786}{revealed
a second person in California} had been found to be infected with the
coronavirus without having any known risk factors, President Trump
suggested the panic over the issue was being manufactured by his
enemies.

In South Carolina on Friday night at his latest freestyle ``Keep America
Great'' rally, the president accused Democrats of treating alarm over
the coronavirus as ``their new hoax,'' and said the news media was in
``hysteria mode'' over his administration's handling of the outbreak,
continuing an attempt to shift blame for a public health crisis onto his
political adversaries.

``Now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus,'' Mr. Trump told a
crowd of supporters, who roared in response. ``They can't even count
their votes in Iowa.''

``We have 15 people'' with the virus ``in this massive country, and
because of the fact that we went early,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/02/us/politics/trump-super-bowl-interview-coronavirus.html}{referring
to an earlier decision} to close American borders to travelers from
China, ``we could've had a lot more than that.''

The president added that ``so far, we have lost nobody'' to the
coronavirus.

``It doesn't mean we won't,'' he said.

(By late Friday, two more unexplained cases of the coronavirus had been
confirmed in the West, one in Oregon and one in Washington State.)

Mr. Trump, who overnighted this week in India and who, according to his
acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney,
\href{https://twitter.com/atrupar/status/1233461717839073282?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1233461717839073282\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fnymag.com\%2Fintelligencer\%2F2020\%2F02\%2Fmick-mulvaney-praises-donald-trump-as-tireless-workaholic-twitter.html}{has
barely slept since,} spent nearly 90 minutes mixing his views about the
coronavirus with insults about the 2020 Democratic presidential
candidates.

He also sprinkled in free-associative rants about his popularity with
black voters and topics further afield. The president at different
points mused about the Rev. Al Sharpton's weight --- ``He looked better
when he was heavy'' --- and the Academy Awards --- ``Seriously, the
Academy Awards has gone way, way down in ratings. You know why? Because
they started attacking us, and we don't believe in it anymore. That's
why.''

But he always found his way back to partisan politics.

``On Jan. 31, I ordered the suspension of foreign nationals who have
recently been in China from entering the United States,'' Mr. Trump said
to loud cheers about his decision to seal the borders to travelers, ``an
action which the Democrats loudly criticized and protested, and now
everybody's complimenting me.''

Experts have questioned the effectiveness of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/china-coronavirus-contain.html}{border
closures and quarantines} when so much about the coronavirus is unknown.
Yet Mr. Trump appeared to tie his administration's response with his
case for tighter immigration policies: ``We must understand that border
security is also health security.''

In recent days, the president has appeared more interested in his
prospects for re-election than in conducting a measured response to a
public health crisis. On Friday morning, Fox News --- usually a reliable
ally --- drew Mr. Trump's ire for
\href{https://www.foxnews.com/politics/fox-news-poll-sanders-knocks-biden-out-of-first-majority-thinks-trump-wins}{releasing
polling} that showed him faltering in matchups against potential rivals
in November.

``Worst Polls, just like in 2016 when they were so far off the mark, are
the @FoxNews Polls,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1233412547958755329}{Mr.
Trump wrote on Twitter.} ``Why doesn't Fox finally get a competent
Polling Company?'' (At the rally, he remarked that the unnamed Fox
pollster ``hates Trump's guts.'')

The Keep America Great rally in South Carolina, a state that Mr. Trump
won handily in 2016, was intended to draw attention away from the
Democratic primary, scheduled for Saturday. With both of the state's
Republican senators, Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, in tow, the president
became the latest national politician to visit a state that has been
overwhelmed by them.

Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the billionaire
businessman Tom Steyer, both running for the Democratic presidential
nomination, are betting that South Carolina will revive their flagging
campaigns, and the president had words for them.

``I thought I knew all the wealthy people,'' he said of Mr. Steyer, whom
he mocked as ``Mr. Impeachment.'' He then teased Mr. Biden for mixing up
the names of states he has visited. ``He did that like seven times,''
Mr. Trump said.

``If I did that once, it would be the end of the road, right?'' he
added. ``They'd say Trump has lost it.''

He paused before saying, ``They like to say that anyway, I guess.''

Mr. Trump poll-tested various candidates with the crowd --- ``We won't
include Steyer, he's a loser'' --- before disparaging Senator Elizabeth
Warren of Massachusetts as a ``mean one'' and dismissing Michael R.
Bloomberg as ``gone'' and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota as ``not
going to happen.'' The president then asked his supporters who they
thought was the weaker candidate, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont or
Mr. Biden.

``Who the hell is easier to beat? Crazy Bernie? Or Sleepy Joe?'' he
said, before concluding that his best chances lie with Mr. Sanders.

Among other topics, Mr. Trump assessed his own effectiveness with
minority voters, regaling the crowd with a story about a ``love fest''
event at the White House at which he hosted African-Americans.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/us/politics/trump-campaign-black-voters.html}{His
campaign recently announced} a push to open storefronts in swing states
targeting black voters with ``Woke''-themed merchandise and pamphlets.

``One of the things I asked them,'' Mr. Trump said, ``I've been thinking
about this for a long time --- great people, some of them are here
tonight --- `Do you like the name African-American or black?' And they
said, `Black!' all at the same time. True. I tell you. Because you say
African-American or black. And they said almost, like, immediately,
`Black.'''

On and off the rally stage, the president has zeroed in on Mr. Bloomberg
for his performances in recent debates. Earlier Friday, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1233229450881445889}{spread
an unfounded Twitter rumor} that Mr. Bloomberg was thinking of ending
his presidential bid.

``Shouldn't you be worrying about the coronavirus?''
\href{https://twitter.com/MikeBloomberg/status/1233496512451272707?s=20}{Mr.
Bloomberg replied on Twitter}. ``Listen to your scientists. Prepare your
people. Be the leader America needs. If only just this once.''

The South Carolina rally was just the latest stop on Mr. Trump's
grievance roadshow. He has visited every state that has held a primary
or caucus so far this year, making
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/19/us/politics/trump-phoenix-rally.html}{trolling
Democratic candidates a cornerstone} of his re-election campaign
strategy.

Democrats say that this penchant to chase them around the map is
evidence that Mr. Trump is not confident about his chances. But Erin
Cassese, a political science researcher at the University of Delaware
who studies the psychology of voters, said that the president was
capitalizing on the anger felt by Republican voters who have been
bombarded with messaging they do not necessarily agree with.

``There's how much you like your own party and then there's almost how
much you dislike the opposing party,'' Ms. Cassese said. ``I see Trump
as riding the wave of negative partisanship by following Democrats
through these early primary states. And the rally is kind of a pressure
valve.''

At the rally, Mr. Trump summoned Mr. Graham, a fervent defender of the
president's, onstage for a round of praise.

``Do you know why you're going to win?'' the senator asked Mr. Trump.
``You've been a damn good president.'' Mr. Graham then thanked the
president for putting up with what the senator described as never-ending
obstacles, though Mr. Graham used an expletive instead.

Later, as Mr. Trump spoke about immigration, he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/nyregion/sanctuary-cities-funding.html}{celebrated
a federal appeals court ruling} that determined that his administration
would not have to provide funding to so-called sanctuary cities, and he
recounted in grisly detail stories of an undocumented immigrant who had
been arrested and charged with sexual assault and murder. He said the
man was also a member of the MS-13 gang, a vicious criminal
organization.

``He should never have been in our country,'' Mr. Trump said as the
crowd roared and started a ``Build the Wall'' chant. ``He should not
have been allowed.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
