Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-pushes-for-college-and-big-ten-football-to-resume}{%
\section{Trump Pushes for College and Big Ten Football to
Resume}\label{trump-pushes-for-college-and-big-ten-football-to-resume}}

Last Updated

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

Sept. 11, 2020, 5:01 p.m. ET

Joe Biden and his surrogates seized on the news that President Trump
knew the coronavirus was deadly and intentionally suggested otherwise.
The latest virus relief bill failed in the Senate.

\emph{This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{Follow
our latest coverage of the 2020 election.}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{in-michigan-trump-keeps-up-push-for-big-ten-footballs-return-and-defends-remarks-to-woodward}{}

  In Michigan, Trump keeps up push for Big Ten football's return, and
  defends remarks to Woodward.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-is-heading-to-new-york-friday-for-9-11-ceremonies-then-on-to-pennsylvania-observance}{}

  Biden is heading to New York Friday for 9/11 ceremonies, then on to
  Pennsylvania observance.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-who-often-stokes-fear-said-he-played-down-the-virus-so-as-not-to-scare-everybody}{}

  Trump, who often stokes fear, said he played down the virus so as not
  to `scare everybody.'
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{russian-intelligence-hackers-return-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warns}{}

  Russian intelligence hackers return, targeting both parties, Microsoft
  warns.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{google-and-twitter-add-new-safeguards-to-target-election-misinformation}{}

  Google and Twitter add new safeguards to target election
  misinformation.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{the-scaled-back-republican-stimulus-plan-fails-in-the-senate-darkening-prospects-for-a-deal-before-the-election}{}

  The scaled-back Republican stimulus plan fails in the Senate,
  darkening prospects for a deal before the election.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-monmouth-poll-shows-biden-keeping-his-lead-over-trump-nationally-and-voters-worried-about-election-integrity}{}

  A Monmouth poll shows Biden keeping his lead over Trump nationally and
  voters worried about election integrity.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{in-michigan-trump-keeps-up-push-for-big-ten-footballs-return-and-defends-remarks-to-woodward}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-michigan-trump-keeps-up-push-for-big-ten-footballs-return-and-defends-remarks-to-woodward}{In
Michigan, Trump keeps up push for Big Ten football's return, and defends
remarks to
Woodward.}}{In Michigan, Trump keeps up push for Big Ten football's return, and defends remarks to Woodward.}}\label{in-michigan-trump-keeps-up-push-for-big-ten-footballs-return-and-defends-remarks-to-woodward}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-trumpresponds2/merlin_176830143_4aceafcb-2e15-4f0d-9197-6df6b1bc6093-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump traveled to Michigan Thursday evening for a campaign
rally, where he again made a call for the return of Big Ten football and
pushed for Michigan universities to reopen after making the same appeal
earlier at a White House news conference.

``Let's open it up, let's play football,'' Mr. Trump told the crowd
gathered at an airport hangar in Freeland.

Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump discussed one of his favorite topics ---
the future of Big Ten football.

``We want to see Big Ten football,'' he said. ``But people are working
very, very hard to get Big Ten football back and I'm pushing it, and it
will be a great thing for our country and players.''

Mr. Trump said that universities should reopen because ``it's much safer
for students to live on campus'' than to have them at home ``spreading
the virus to high risk Americans.''

``I know the governor will have a lot to say about it, we hope she
approves it,'' he said.

His remarks came a week after the Biden campaign enlisted two football
players in Michigan to make the case that the federal government's poor
coronavirus response had left swaths of the Midwest without their
favorite football teams.

``The leadership in Michigan took it seriously from Day 1, locking
things down and saving a lot of lives,'' Calvin Johnson, the former
Detroit Lions wide receiver, said in a call arranged by the campaign.
``What if we had done the same with the federal response? What if we had
a leader that led by example, who wears his mask and preaches social
distancing?''

Mr. Trump also defended his interviews with the veteran journalist Bob
Woodward. ``I didn't lie,'' he said when asked to explain why he had
privately described the virus as ``deadly stuff'' and admitted it was
more deadly than ``even your strenuous flu'' while telling the public
the opposite.

Mr. Trump bristled at a White House news conference when Jonathan Karl
of ABC News asked him: ``Why did you lie to the American people and why
should we trust what you have to say now?''

``Such a terrible question, and the phraseology,'' Mr. Trump said. ``I
didn't lie. What I said is we have to be calm, we can't be panicked.''

Later, at the rally, Mr. Trump defended himself in the wake of his own
comments to Mr. Woodward by comparing his performance in explaining the
coronavirus threat to the public to that of Winston Churchill during the
bombing of London in World War II.

``As the British government advised the British people in the face of
World War II, `keep calm and carry on,' that's what I did,'' Mr. Trump
said. In fact, Mr. Churchill was known for being direct with the public
about the possibilities ahead.

Mr. Trump also falsely claimed credit for saving the auto industry and
adding car factories to Michigan, and demagogued refugees as something
Michigan residents should fear.

``He has promised to flood your state with refugees, and you know that
as well as I do, and you see it all the time from terrorist hot spots
around the world including Syria, Somalia and Yemen,'' Mr. Trump said.
At another point, he said that suburban voters needed to fear ``a
resident from Antifa'' joining their neighborhood, should Mr. Biden win.

\begin{quote}
.\href{https://twitter.com/jonkarl?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{@jonkarl}: "Why
did you lie to the American people? Why should we trust what you have to
say now?"

President Trump: Such a terrible question and the phraseology. I didn't
lie."

Full video here: \url{https://t.co/EYGgLk4KMP}
\href{https://t.co/T5dmwDNIP0}{pic.twitter.com/T5dmwDNIP0}

--- CSPAN (@cspan)
\href{https://twitter.com/cspan/status/1304148164262408192?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw}{September
10, 2020}
\end{quote}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie
Karni} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\hypertarget{biden-is-heading-to-new-york-friday-for-911-ceremonies-then-on-to-pennsylvania-observance}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-is-heading-to-new-york-friday-for-9-11-ceremonies-then-on-to-pennsylvania-observance}{Biden
is heading to New York Friday for 9/11 ceremonies, then on to
Pennsylvania
observance.}}{Biden is heading to New York Friday for 9/11 ceremonies, then on to Pennsylvania observance.}}\label{biden-is-heading-to-new-york-friday-for-911-ceremonies-then-on-to-pennsylvania-observance}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-biden-9-11/merlin_176788674_55fa2508-b504-410f-9560-f25da2791389-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Joseph R. Biden Jr. will travel to New York on Friday to mark the
anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center,
his campaign announced on Thursday.

He and his wife, Jill Biden, will attend the National September 11
Memorial \& Museum's 19th anniversary commemoration ceremony, his
campaign said. Vice President Mike Pence and his wife, Karen, are also
scheduled to attend the ceremony.

``Family members of 9/11 victims will gather on the Memorial plaza while
adhering to state and federal guidelines regarding social distancing and
public gatherings,'' according to
\href{https://911memorial.org/connect/commemoration/September-11-2001/19th-anniversary-commemoration}{a
statement} posted on the memorial's website.

From there the Bidens will travel to Shanksville, Pa., where a campaign
statement said that they will ``pay their respects to the victims of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2001/09/13/us/after-attacks-united-flight-93-doomed-flight-passengers-vowed-perish-fighting.html}{Flight
93},'' the plane that was hijacked and that crashed into a field after
passengers fought back.

President Trump will also travel to Shanksville. He is expected to
attend a
\href{https://www.nps.gov/flni/planyourvisit/sept11observance.htm}{memorial
service} that begins in the morning.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-who-often-stokes-fear-said-he-played-down-the-virus-so-as-not-to-scare-everybody}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-who-often-stokes-fear-said-he-played-down-the-virus-so-as-not-to-scare-everybody}{Trump,
who often stokes fear, said he played down the virus so as not to `scare
everybody.'}}{Trump, who often stokes fear, said he played down the virus so as not to `scare everybody.'}}\label{trump-who-often-stokes-fear-said-he-played-down-the-virus-so-as-not-to-scare-everybody}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-fear/10elections-briefing-fear-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A day after President Trump argued at a White House news conference that
he had played down the lethality of the coronavirus in public because he
did not want to ``scare everybody,'' the president struck a decidedly
less reassuring tone on Twitter.

``If I don't win, America's Suburbs will be OVERRUN with Low Income
Projects, Anarchists, Agitators, Looters and, of course, `Friendly
Protesters,' '' Mr.
Trump\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1304060630656311296?s=20}{wrote
Thursday,} in another sign of the way he and his campaign have tried to
stoke the fears of voters.

Fear has been long been central to Mr. Trump's political persona. He
announced his candidacy for president in 2015 claiming that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/politics/first-draft/2015/06/16/choice-words-from-donald-trump-presidential-candidate/}{Mexico
was sending ``rapists''} to the United States, used his unusually dark
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2017/01/20/us/politics/donald-trump-inauguration-speech-transcript.html}{inaugural
address}to take aim at what he called ``American carnage,'' and, during
the 2018 midterm elections, ordered troops to the southern border in
response to a caravan of Central American migrants that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/29/us/politics/border-security-troops-trump.html?login=smartlock\&auth=login-smartlock}{he
had characterized as an ``invasion of our country.''}

And
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?referringSource=articleShare}{fear
has been a key component of his re-election bid, as the Trump campaign
has tried to argue that voters would not be safe in ``Joe Biden's
America.}'' One Trump ad
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=moZOrq0qL3Q}{showed a man prying
open the door} of an older woman's home with a crowbar. When she reaches
911, a recording tells her, ``Leave a message and we'll get back to you
as soon as we can.''

But this week, after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/woodward-trump-book-virus.html}{the
damaging revelation that Mr. Trump had told the journalist Bob
Woodward}that he had knowingly played down the threat of the coronavirus
even though he knew that it was life-threatening and vastly more serious
than the flu, Mr. Trump found himself insisting that as a leader it was
his duty to project confidence, not spread fear.

``We don't want to instill panic,'' the president said at the White
House on Wednesday. ``We don't want to jump up and down and start
shouting that we have a problem that is a tremendous problem.''

Mr. Biden, his Democratic opponent, offered a different theory on why
the president had played down the threat of the virus. ``It was all
about making sure the stock market didn't come down, that his wealthy
friends didn't lose any money,''
\href{https://twitter.com/mkraju/status/1303811690371444750}{Mr. Biden
said} at a campaign stop on Wednesday.

The new revelations about Mr. Trump and the virus came from interviews
Mr. Woodward conducted with the president for his coming book, ``Rage.''
Mr. Woodward's first book on the Trump presidency was called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/09/05/books/review-fear-trump-in-white-house-bob-woodward.html}{``Fear.''}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper}

\hypertarget{biden-campaign-laces-into-trump-over-virus-revelations-the-slow-response-caused-people-to-die}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-campaign-laces-into-trump-over-virus-revelations-the-slow-response-caused-people-to-die}{Biden
campaign laces into Trump over virus revelations: The slow response
`caused people to
die.'}}{Biden campaign laces into Trump over virus revelations: The slow response `caused people to die.'}}\label{biden-campaign-laces-into-trump-over-virus-revelations-the-slow-response-caused-people-to-die}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-biden-call1/merlin_176785713_72701aab-b410-4018-a1b2-effb912b5ba0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s campaign on Thursday extended its denunciations of
President Trump over revelations that he knowingly minimized the risks
of the coronavirus, directly blaming his response to the crisis for the
loss of American lives.

In an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper that aired on Thursday, Mr. Biden
tore into Mr. Trump, saying that his delayed response to the virus had
``caused people to die'' and that his decision to play down the virus
was ``all about making sure the stock market didn't come down, that his
wealthy friends didn't lose any money.''

``He waved a white flag, he walked away, he didn't do a damn thing,''
Mr. Biden said. ``Think about it. Think about what he did not do. It's
almost criminal.''

Senator Kamala Harris, at an appearance in Florida also on Thursday,
accused the president of recklessly endangering American lives. ``He had
all this information yet he held rallies, he suggested that to wear a
mask is a sign of weakness as opposed to a sign of strength,'' she said.
``This is the president of the United States. So we continue to have
examples of the fact that this is an individual who is not concerned
about the health, safety and well-being of the American people and is
frankly engaged in a reckless disregard of the lives and health and well
being of the people of our country. I find it so outrageous.''

Earlier, during a call with reporters addressing Mr. Trump's admission
to the journalist Bob Woodward that he had intentionally played down the
virus, campaign surrogates offered a similarly stinging rebuke of the
president.

``My dad trusted the president,'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/elections/kristin-urquiza-whose-father-died-of-covid-19-turned-grief-into-activism-at-the-convention.html}{Kristin
Urquiza}, whose 65-year-old father died of the virus in Arizona in June,
not long after the state lifted many stay-at-home restrictions. ``He
listened to the president and followed his advice,'' she continued,
echoing remarks she made at the Democratic convention last month.

``And sure, my dad did not panic. But instead, he died.''

Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, also on the call, said Mr. Trump's
decision to play down the virus was ``the definition of Donald Trump's
phony populism.''

``He sold the American people these lies, then he betrayed them and
people died,'' Mr. Brown said.

The CNN interview with Mr. Biden was taped on Wednesday in Michigan. It
is a state that Mr. Trump carried by less than 11,000 votes in 2016 over
Hillary Clinton, who was criticized for not giving the swing state more
attention.

Mr. Biden acknowledged that Democrats had work to do to earn the support
of blue-collar voters who bought into Mr. Trump's populist message.

``Look, I think number one, a lot was taken for granted,'' Mr. Biden
said, asserting that middle-class voters were worse off because of the
Trump administration's economic policies.

Before the Biden campaign call on Thursday, Mr. Trump tried to attack
Mr. Biden's own response to the virus, pointing in a memo to his
campaign's decision to hold an indoor rally in Michigan in early March.

The memo did not mention the rallies Mr. Trump continued to hold after
he privately acknowledged the dangers of the virus and even after the
severity of the virus had become abundantly clear.

Attempting to parry Mr. Trump's attacks, Bill Russo, the deputy
communications director for the Biden campaign, laid out steps Mr. Biden
took as the outbreak grew, including
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2020/01/27/coronavirus-donald-trump-made-us-less-prepared-joe-biden-column/4581710002/}{an
op-ed article} Mr. Biden wrote about the dangers of the virus in
January, and sought to shift the focus back to Mr. Trump.

``Maybe if the president of the United States hadn't been lying about
the extent of the crisis that we were facing, we would have had
different information to make different decisions,'' he said.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil
Vigdor}

\hypertarget{russian-intelligence-hackers-return-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warns}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{russian-intelligence-hackers-return-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warns}{Russian
intelligence hackers return, targeting both parties, Microsoft
warns.}}{Russian intelligence hackers return, targeting both parties, Microsoft warns.}}\label{russian-intelligence-hackers-return-targeting-both-parties-microsoft-warns}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-election-hacking/merlin_155893821_c137eced-f649-498f-9c16-6f7eb21be1b2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Russian military intelligence unit that attacked the Democratic
National Committee four years ago is back with a series of new, more
stealthy hacks aimed at campaign staff, consultants and think tanks
associated with both Democrats and Republicans.

That warning was issued on Thursday by the Microsoft Corporation, in an
assessment that is far more detailed than any yet made public by
American intelligence agencies.

The findings come one day after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/homeland-security-russia-trump.html}{a
government whistle-blower claimed} that officials at the White House and
the Department of Homeland Security suppressed intelligence concerning
Russia's continuing interference because it ``made the president look
bad,'' and instructed government analysts to instead focus on
interference by China and Iran.

Microsoft did find that Chinese and Iranian hackers have been active ---
but often not in the way that President Trump and his aides have
suggested.

Contrary to an assessment by the director of national intelligence last
month that said China preferred former Vice President Joseph R. Biden
Jr. win the election, Microsoft found that Chinese hackers have been
attacking the private email accounts of Mr. Biden's campaign staff,
along with a range of other prominent individuals in academia and the
national security establishment, including groups like the Atlantic
Council and the Stimson Center.

Notably, only one of the Chinese targets detected by Microsoft was
affiliated with Mr. Trump, a former administration official whom
Microsoft declined to name.

The Biden campaign said it was ``aware of reports from Microsoft that a
foreign actor has made unsuccessful attempts to access the noncampaign
email accounts of individuals affiliated with the campaign,'' and was
preparing for the inevitable onslaught of attacks in the coming weeks.
While it did not confirm the company's reporting, it has taken issue
with the director of national intelligence's assessment, issued several
weeks ago, that Chinese leaders prefer Mr. Biden over Mr. Trump. The
Trump campaign did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

The Microsoft investigation also concluded that hackers related to
Russia's G.R.U., the military intelligence unit that oversaw the ``hack
and leak'' campaigns in 2016 that made emails from Hillary Clinton's
campaign public, is going to new lengths to hide its tracks. It is
routing some of its attacks through Tor, a service that conceals the
attackers' whereabouts and identity, which slowed the effort to identify
the hackers.

So far, Microsoft officials said they found no evidence that hacking
efforts this year were successful, but corporate officials noted that
they have limited vision into Russia's overall operations. They cannot
say definitively that no materials were stolen, or what Russia's
motivations may be. That, they said, was the role of U.S. intelligence
officials.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{David E.
Sanger} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicole-perlroth}{Nicole
Perlroth}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-once-regarded-as-a-vaccine-skeptic-warns-of-coronavirus-antivaxxers}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-once-regarded-as-a-vaccine-skeptic-warns-of-coronavirus-antivaxxers}{Trump,
once regarded as a vaccine skeptic, warns of coronavirus
antivaxxers.}}{Trump, once regarded as a vaccine skeptic, warns of coronavirus antivaxxers.}}\label{trump-once-regarded-as-a-vaccine-skeptic-warns-of-coronavirus-antivaxxers}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-vaccines/merlin_170789625_bd994135-fec9-4f58-be6c-0a6ad85ebb84-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump warned Thursday of the dangers of being an
``antivaxxer,'' speaking at a White House news conference at which he
lashed back at Joseph R. Biden Jr. for saying Mr. Trump had undermined
public confidence in a potential Covid-19 vaccine.

``Biden's launched a public campaign against the vaccine which is so
bad, because we have some vaccines coming that are incredible,'' Mr.
Trump said, seeming to conflate Mr. Biden's criticism of his opponent
with an anti-vaccine position.

Until recently, Mr. Trump had been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/09/health/trump-vaccines.html}{widely
regarded as a vaccine skeptic} who had helped spread the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/05/health/measles-vaccine-autism.html}{false
idea that inoculations are linked to autism.}

As recently as 2015, in a Republican presidential debate, he said that
children were pumped with doses ``meant for a horse, not a child,'' and
that could result in autism.

Mr. Trump would also boast about never getting a flu shot, telling a
radio host that year, ``I've never had one, and that's why I've never
had the flu. I don't like the idea of injecting bad stuff into your
body, which is basically what they do.''

As president, however, he did concede that he was getting an annual flu
shot.

Now, of course, Mr. Trump has become one of the country's leading
proponents of a Covid-19 vaccine.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-lashes-at-biden-and-harris-claiming-they-politicized-his-accelerated-vaccine-timeline}{On
Monday,} Mr. Biden made clear that he was strongly in favor of vaccines.
``If I could get a vaccine tomorrow, I'd do it. If it cost me the
election I would do it. We need a vaccine and we need it now. We have to
listen to the scientists.''

\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/voters-covid-19-vaccine-opinion-poll/}{On
Sunday,} a CBS poll showed that just 21 percent of Americans would get a
Covid-19 vaccine if it were ready ``as soon as possible'' and available
at no cost. That response had dropped from 32 percent in a CBS poll
taken in late July.

Experts fear that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/health/coronavirus-anti-vaccine.html}{public
anxiety about the vaccine approval process} could slow the uptake of a
coronavirus vaccine once it becomes available, and therefore compromise
its ability to stop transmission.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jan-hoffman}{Jan
Hoffman}

\hypertarget{seema-verma-a-top-federal-health-official-spent-millions-burnishing-her-image-a-congressional-report-found}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{seema-verma-a-top-federal-health-official-spent-millions-burnishing-her-image-a-congressional-report-found}{Seema
Verma, a top federal health official, spent millions burnishing her
image, a Congressional report
found.}}{Seema Verma, a top federal health official, spent millions burnishing her image, a Congressional report found.}}\label{seema-verma-a-top-federal-health-official-spent-millions-burnishing-her-image-a-congressional-report-found}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-verma-10-10-16/10elections-briefing-verma-10-10-16-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, abused nearly \$6 million in taxpayer funds by hiring
Republican consultants to burnish her image through media appearances,
profile pieces and events, an investigation by congressional Democrats
has found.

The investigation found that the consultants hired by Ms. Verma charged
up to \$380 an hour, far exceeding the salaries of federal employees,
who it said were sidelined by the administrator, her aides and the
consultants.

The report found that one consultant, Pam Stevens, had billed the
government nearly \$3,000 for work on a ``Girls' Night'' in honor of Ms.
Verma at the home of Susan Page, the Washington bureau chief of USA
Today.

Chrissy Terrell, a spokeswoman for USA Today, said that Ms. Page had
personally paid for all the costs of the Girls' Night reception,
including \$4,025 for catering. She said that the reception was part of
a series organized by Ms. Stevens, with events routinely held at the
homes of prominent Washington journalists to honor both Democratic and
Republican women. Ms. Page was not paid or reimbursed by the federal
government for the event, Ms. Terrell said, and had been unaware that
the government had been billed for setting it up.

The findings of the probe are contained in
\href{https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nezMXLk6auFtFn4bzLy26k0P5CVI1Zow/view}{a
report} that was prepared by the Democratic staffs of several House and
Senate committees. The investigation, which was
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/09/10/seema-verma-medicaid-expenses-411539}{first
reported by Politico}, relied on tens of thousands of pages of documents
from the federal Department of Health and Human Services, the Medicare
administrator's parent agency, and interviews with employees and
executives of two consulting firms Ms. Verma used.

The consultants had strong Republican ties. One of the consultants
circulated a **** document entitled, ``Draft Executive Visibility
Proposal Seema Verma,'' which targeted magazines for potential profile
pieces on Ms. Verma and recommended placing her on high-profile lists of
influential people, the investigation found.

And the work paid off: Between August 2018 and April 2019, the
consultants landed
\href{https://www.aarp.org/health/medicare-insurance/info-2019/cms-seema-verma-interview.html}{profiles
of Ms. Verma} in multiple outlets.

In a statement, Ms. Stevens said she was hired in August of 2018 by
Porter Novelli, a public relations firm with a Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid contract ``to put together a plan to educate media about CMS's
work through meetings'' with Ms. Verma. ``I was then asked to facilitate
meetings with some of the organizations in the plan as well as with
thought leaders.''

Michael Caputo, a spokesman for the department of Health and Human
Services, called the report a partisan smear. ``This is just another
reckless, politically timed, drive-by hit job on a reform-driven Trump
Administration official and, by extension, on President Trump himself,''
he said in a statement.

The leaders of the Congressional committees who produced the report said
in a joint statement: ``We believe she should personally reimburse the
taxpayers for these inappropriate expenditures.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl
Gay Stolberg} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elizabeth-williamson}{Elizabeth
Williamson}

\hypertarget{wisconsins-supreme-court-temporarily-suspends-the-mailing-of-absentee-ballots}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{wisconsins-supreme-court-temporarily-suspends-the-mailing-of-absentee-ballots}{Wisconsin's
Supreme Court temporarily suspends the mailing of absentee
ballots.}}{Wisconsin's Supreme Court temporarily suspends the mailing of absentee ballots.}}\label{wisconsins-supreme-court-temporarily-suspends-the-mailing-of-absentee-ballots}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-wisconsin/merlin_171406668_ff63cbd0-fd11-4025-b881-55f861414653-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Up against a deadline next week for sending out nearly one million
absentee ballots, elections officials in the battleground state of
Wisconsin were ordered by the state Supreme Court on Thursday to
temporarily suspend mailing them so a lawsuit over candidate eligibility
could be resolved.

The order, a 4-to-3 ruling by the conservative-controlled court, came
after Howie Hawkins, the Green Party candidate for president,
\href{https://howiehawkins.us/release-green-candidates-hawkins-and-walker-to-sue-wisconsin-for-ballot-access/}{sued
the Wisconsin Elections Commission over having been left off the}Nov. 3
\href{https://howiehawkins.us/release-green-candidates-hawkins-and-walker-to-sue-wisconsin-for-ballot-access/}{ballot}.

The rapper Kanye West, who was denied a spot on the Wisconsin ballot as
an independent presidential candidate, is mounting a separate legal
challenge.

Both cases have been intensely followed by Democrats and Republicans in
the state, which President Trump carried in 2016, with 22,748 more votes
than Hillary Clinton. The Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, received
31,072 votes.

Many of the one million ballots have been requested by residents seeking
to avoid voting in person during the pandemic.

Elections officials denied Mr. Hawkins and his running mate, Angela
Walker, a place on the ballot after a
\href{https://elections.wi.gov/sites/elections.wi.gov/files/2020-08/Challenge\%20Complaint_Arntsen\%20v.\%20Hawkins.pdf}{challenge
was mounted regarding the signatures they had submitted to}secure a
spot. The Green Party candidates have said the challenge was
orchestrated by Democrats to keep them off the ballot. The complainant
was a Democrat and retired lawyer.

The thrust of that challenge was that 2,046 of nearly 3,800 signatures
the Green Party candidates collected listed the wrong street address for
Ms. Walker, a technicality that left the pair short of the 2,000 names
needed to qualify.

In the majority opinion, the court ordered the Elections Commission to
provide the names and addresses of voters who had already received
absentee ballots as of the close of business on Thursday.

A commission spokesman said the agency was working to comply with the
order and would have no further comment. It was not immediately clear
how long the delay in mailing would last. A state law requires absentee
ballots to be sent out 47 days before the election.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/neil-vigdor}{Neil
Vigdor}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{treasury-department-imposes-sanctions-on-a-ukrainian-lawmaker-accused-of-election-interference}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{treasury-department-imposes-sanctions-on-a-ukrainian-lawmaker-accused-of-election-interference}{Treasury
Department imposes sanctions on a Ukrainian lawmaker accused of election
interference.}}{Treasury Department imposes sanctions on a Ukrainian lawmaker accused of election interference.}}\label{treasury-department-imposes-sanctions-on-a-ukrainian-lawmaker-accused-of-election-interference}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-ukraine/merlin_162415785_3fef01ec-ac02-4db3-9bf3-88c097dd26b7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Trump administration imposed sanctions on a Ukrainian lawmaker
Thursday, saying he had waged ``a covert influence campaign'' to
undermine the presidential election after he disseminated information
intended to hurt former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. --- material
that President Trump promoted as recently as last month.

The Treasury Department accused Andriy Derkach, a member of the
Ukrainian Parliament, of being ``an active Russian agent for over a
decade'' and said he had
released\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/sanctions-russia-ukraine-election-interference.html}{``edited
audiotapes'' and ``unsubstantiated allegations} against U.S. and
international political figures.''

While \href{https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm1118}{the
announcement of sanctions} does not name Mr. Biden, the Democratic
presidential nominee, it appears to describe recordings Mr. Derkach
released of him in conversation with Petro O. Poroshenko, the former
president of Ukraine, that Mr. Derkach claimed revealed corruption.

Mr. Derkach and other Russian agents ``employ manipulation and deceit to
attempt to influence elections in the United States and elsewhere around
the world,'' Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said in a statement
accompanying the sanctions.

Mr. Trump has pushed unsubstantiated claims that Mr. Biden used his
position as vice president to pressure the Ukrainian government to
protect his son, who served on the board of a gas company owned by an
oligarch widely considered to be corrupt. A campaign waged by Mr. Trump
and his personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani to pressure Ukraine to
investigate the matter led to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/18/us/politics/trump-impeached.html}{president's
impeachment last year} by the House of Representatives.

But Mr. Trump has continued calling attention to the issue. Mr. Giuliani
met with Mr. Derkach in December in Kyiv during a trip intended to
collect damaging information about the Bidens, according to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/us/politics/giuliani-europe-impeachment.html}{report
in The New York Times}.

The Treasury Department also announced sanctions against three employees
of the Internet Research Agency, a troll farm based in Russia that it
said spread disinformation on social media as part of the Kremlin's
election interference campaign in 2016.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/pranshu-verma}{Pranshu
Verma} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P.
Vogel}

\hypertarget{google-and-twitter-add-new-safeguards-to-target-election-misinformation}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{google-and-twitter-add-new-safeguards-to-target-election-misinformation}{Google
and Twitter add new safeguards to target election
misinformation.}}{Google and Twitter add new safeguards to target election misinformation.}}\label{google-and-twitter-add-new-safeguards-to-target-election-misinformation}}

Google and Twitter said on Thursday that they are adding to a growing
list of policies meant to combat misinformation ahead of the November
election.

Google said in a virtual news conference that it will limit what its
``Autocomplete'' features suggest to users typing search queries related
to the elections. The company said it did not want those automated
suggestions or predictions to be interpreted as ``claims for or against
any candidate or political party.'' As a result, a search query starting
with ``donate to'' would not suggest either presidential candidate.

The company also said it would not provide suggestions for search
queries when people are seeking information on voting methods,
requirements or the status of voting locations. Whether a suggestion
appears or not, Google said users would not be limited in what they can
search for.

In the 2016 presidential election, supporters of Donald J. Trump accused
Google of suppressing negative stories about Hillary Clinton. The claims
were ultimately debunked.

In addition, Google said that it has expanded the way in which it
monitors breaking news with an ``intelligence desk'' that tracks and
identifies ``potential information threats.''

Google said it has also improved the speed at which its automated
systems recognize that a breaking news event, such as a natural
disaster, is happening so that the company can be careful to feature
prominently information from sources it considers trustworthy.

Separately, Twitter said on Thursday that it is expanding its policies
regarding election misinformation. The social media service will begin
removing tweets that push false or misleading information about laws
governing elections or the outcome of a vote. Twitter will also remove
disputed claims that could undermine voters' confidence in the electoral
process, like assertions of ballot tampering or vote rigging. The policy
will take effect next week, Twitter said.

Although Twitter had long taken a hands-off approach to Mr. Trump's
messages, earlier this year the company began enforcing its rules
against violative tweets by the president.

In May, Twitter added a fact-check label to two of Mr. Trump's tweets
that contained misleading information about mail-in ballots. And last
month,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/23/technology/twitter-trump-tweet-warning.html}{Twitter
put a warning label} on posts in which Mr. Trump falsely claimed that
ballot boxes would be a vector for coronavirus transmission and be used
for fraud. Last week, Facebook and Twitter added warning labels to posts
by Mr. Trump that encouraged Americans to vote twice.

Twitter, Facebook and other major companies meet regularly to discuss
election security. Recent discussions have revolved around postelection
scenarios, including the possibility of attempts by Mr. Trump or his
campaign to use social media to delegitimize the results.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/daisuke-wakabayashi}{Daisuke
Wakabayashi} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kate-conger}{Kate Conger}

\hypertarget{the-scaled-back-republican-stimulus-plan-fails-in-the-senate-darkening-prospects-for-a-deal-before-the-election}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-scaled-back-republican-stimulus-plan-fails-in-the-senate-darkening-prospects-for-a-deal-before-the-election}{The
scaled-back Republican stimulus plan fails in the Senate, darkening
prospects for a deal before the
election.}}{The scaled-back Republican stimulus plan fails in the Senate, darkening prospects for a deal before the election.}}\label{the-scaled-back-republican-stimulus-plan-fails-in-the-senate-darkening-prospects-for-a-deal-before-the-election}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-stimulus/merlin_176807496_56986be6-4ca9-490e-abd5-c6a539059f6f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Senate Republicans on Thursday failed to advance their substantially
scaled-back stimulus plan amid opposition by Democrats who called the
measure inadequate, further darkening the already dim prospects that
Congress will enact another economic recovery measure to address the
toll of the pandemic before November's election.

After months of struggling to overcome deep internal divisions over the
scope of another relief package, Republicans presented a near-united
front in support of their latest plan, while Democrats opposed it en
masse, denying it the 60 votes it would have needed to advance.

The result was never in doubt, and Republicans held the vote largely in
an effort to foist blame on Democrats for the lack of progress on a
compromise.

The 52-47 vote was mostly along party lines, with Democrats uniformly in
opposition and one Republican, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, joining
them in seeking to block the measure from advancing.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said of the
Democrats before the procedural vote, ``They can tell American families
they care more about politics than helping them,'' adding: ``Senators
who want to move forward will vote yes. They will vote to advance this
process so they can shape it into a bipartisan product and make a law
for the American people.''

The plan, which slashed billions of dollars from the original \$1
trillion Republican proposal unveiled in July, included federal aid for
unemployed workers, small businesses, schools and vaccine development.

But Democrats, who have refused to accept any proposal less than \$2.2
trillion, argued that it did little to address the economic devastation
of the pandemic.

It did not include another round of stimulus checks for American
taxpayers or aid to state and local governments, omissions that cut down
the overall price tag of the legislation in an effort to appease fiscal
conservatives. And while it would have revived weekly federal jobless
benefits that lapsed at the end of July, it set them at \$300 --- half
the original amount.

Democrats are pressing to reinstitute the full \$600 payment.

``This bill is not going to happen because it is so emaciated, so filled
with poison pills --- it is designed to fail,'' said Senator Chuck
Schumer of New York, the minority leader, on the Senate floor. ``It's
insufficient. It's completely inadequate.''

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who has been a point man in
negotiations with Democrats on a recovery package, cast doubt Wednesday
on whether any agreement could be reached, saying he was not sure
whether there was still a chance.

``We'll see,'' Mr. Mnuchin said. ``I hope there is. It's important to a
lot of people out there.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/emily-cochrane}{Emily
Cochrane}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-monmouth-poll-shows-biden-keeping-his-lead-over-trump-nationally-and-voters-worried-about-election-integrity}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-monmouth-poll-shows-biden-keeping-his-lead-over-trump-nationally-and-voters-worried-about-election-integrity}{A
Monmouth poll shows Biden keeping his lead over Trump nationally and
voters worried about election
integrity.}}{A Monmouth poll shows Biden keeping his lead over Trump nationally and voters worried about election integrity.}}\label{a-monmouth-poll-shows-biden-keeping-his-lead-over-trump-nationally-and-voters-worried-about-election-integrity}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-monmouth/merlin_176788626_f90cbd3a-2a53-4189-9bd5-d7471d1bbc27-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A national poll released Thursday shows Joseph R. Biden Jr. maintaining
his lead over President Trump as the campaign enters its last two
months, adding to a growing number of surveys that have suggested that
the state of the race is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/us/elections/a-wave-of-polls-taken-after-the-conventions-show-little-change-in-bidens-lead.html}{largely
unchanged since the party conventions}.

\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_US_091020/}{The
poll}, conducted by Monmouth University, shows Mr. Biden ahead of Mr.
Trump by nine percentage points among registered voters, 51 percent to
42 percent. The survey results are almost identical to
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_us_081120/}{those
in a survey conducted by Monmouth in early August}, before the
conventions.

Thursday's poll also found Mr. Biden with a seven-point lead among
likely voters, which tracks with national polling averages at this stage
in the race. On average, Mr. Biden has been holding onto a lead of seven
to eight percentage points among likely voters nationwide, down slightly
from a lead of eight to nine points heading into the conventions.

The Monmouth survey also found only two percent of likely voters
undecided. The poll was conducted by telephone from Sept. 3 to 8,
surveyed 758 registered voters and has a margin of error of plus or
minus 4 percentage points.

National polls can provide a broad window into the state of the race,
but it is Electoral College votes that decide the outcome. Some recent
polls have shown Mr. Biden's lead slipping in battleground states like
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/7203771-NBC-News-Marist-Poll-FL-Annotated-Questionnaire.html}{Florida}
and
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_pa_090220/}{Pennsylvania}.

The Monmouth poll also asked voters about their confidence in the
integrity of the 2020 election. Mr. Trump has railed for weeks against
mail voting, which is expected to be used by tens of millions of voters
amid the coronavirus pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/mail-in-voting-explained.html}{claiming
without evidence} that the practice is rife with fraud. Social media
platforms like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/technology/facebook-russia-disinformation-election.html}{Facebook
and Twitter have said} that the Russian group that interfered in the
2016 presidential election is meddling again.

Thursday's survey found only about six in 10 voters very or somewhat
confident that the election will be conducted fairly. Roughly one in
four said they were ``not too confident'' and 13 percent said they were
``not at all confident.''

The poll found that 52 percent of voters thought it somewhat or very
likely that the Trump campaign would try to cheat if it was necessary to
win; 39 percent of respondents said the same about the Biden campaign.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/matt-stevens}{Matt
Stevens}

AD WATCH

\hypertarget{woodwards-trump-tapes-are-fodder-for-a-new-ad}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{woodwards-trump-tapes-are-fodder-for-a-new-ad}{Woodward's
Trump tapes are fodder for a new
ad.}}{Woodward's Trump tapes are fodder for a new ad.}}\label{woodwards-trump-tapes-are-fodder-for-a-new-ad}}

The newly-released recordings of President Trump admitting in interviews
with Bob Woodward that he played down the threat of the coronavirus are
prime fodder for Democratic attacks. Priorities USA, a major Democratic
super PAC, was the first to cut them into a digital ad.

\hypertarget{the-message}{%
\subsubsection{The Message}\label{the-message}}

Since the pandemic exploded in late March, Democratic groups and
candidates have seized on the coronavirus as a top political advertising
issue, and nearly \$40 million in TV ads over the past 30 days have
focused on Covid-19, according to Advertising Analytics, an ad tracking
firm. Many Democratic attacks have followed the same formula as the new
ad from Priorities USA: audio of Mr. Trump downplaying the virus set
against an exponential growth chart of deaths.

But the new ad set against the same graphics, using recordings from Mr.
Woodward's interviews with the president, drives home a darker message:
that rather than handling the virus incompetently, Mr. Trump engaged in
a cover-up, hiding information about how lethal the pandemic was from
the American people.

\hypertarget{fact-check}{%
\subsubsection{Fact Check}\label{fact-check}}

The ad begins with audio clips of Mr. Trump's interview with Mr.
Woodward, but transitions to public comments Mr. Trump has made,
splicing together a clip of him saying ``the coronavirus'' with one
saying ``this is their new hoax.''

The Trump campaign has
\href{https://www.factcheck.org/2020/04/democratic-ad-twists-trumps-hoax-comment/}{taken
issue with this edit before}, claiming it distorts what the president
said. His full comments, following an accusation that the Democrats were
``politicizing'' the coronavirus, were: ``They tried the impeachment
hoax. That was on a perfect conversation. They tried anything. They
tried it over and over. They'd been doing it since you got in. It's all
turning. They lost. It's all turning. Think of it. Think of it. And this
is their new hoax.''

\hypertarget{where-its-running}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Where It's
Running}}{Where It's Running}}\label{where-its-running}}

The ad will run in both English and Spanish in Michigan, Wisconsin,
Pennsylvania, Florida, and Arizona. Priorities USA said it will run in
other battleground states as well, but did not specify which.

\hypertarget{the-takeaway}{%
\subsubsection{The Takeaway}\label{the-takeaway}}

Voters across the country have been inundated with ads replaying Mr.
Trump's comments downplaying the virus earlier this year, both as the
screens show them rising death counts and their everyday lives continue
to be upended by the pandemic. But Priorities USA, and likely other
groups in the near future, are betting that newly revealed comments from
Mr. Trump indicating he was intentionally downplaying the virus and
hiding its true danger from voters will have a greater impact.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti}

\hypertarget{we-all-do-stupid-things-at-17-donald-trump-jr-says-of-the-teen-accused-of-kenosha-killings}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{we-all-do-stupid-things-at-17-donald-trump-jr-says-of-the-teen-accused-of-kenosha-killings}{`We
all do stupid things at 17,' Donald Trump Jr. says of the teen accused
of Kenosha
killings.}}{`We all do stupid things at 17,' Donald Trump Jr. says of the teen accused of Kenosha killings.}}\label{we-all-do-stupid-things-at-17-donald-trump-jr-says-of-the-teen-accused-of-kenosha-killings}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/us/politics/10elections-briefing-thrush-10-09-46-sub/merlin_176142267_44ff3670-062c-4b07-96aa-ead7554ab2ce-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Donald Trump Jr. told an interviewer this week that his father was
reserving judgment on Kyle H. Rittenhouse, the 17-year-old Illinois
resident accused of killing two protesters in Kenosha, Wis., last month
--- and suggested the shootings were the actions of an impetuous ``young
kid.''

The interviewer, the former ``Bachelorette'' contestant Rachel Lindsay,
asked the younger Trump why his father had not condemned Mr.
Rittenhouse.

\href{https://youtu.be/IhQ0fLHT100}{``We're waiting for due process.
We're not jumping to a conclusion,''} Mr. Trump, who was promoting his
new book, ``Liberal Privilege,'' said on the ``Extra'' entertainment
show.

Then he mused: ``If I put myself in Kyle Rittenhouse, maybe I shouldn't
have been there --- he's a young kid, I don't want 17-year-olds running
around the street with AR-15s --- maybe I wouldn't have put myself in
that situation, who knows? But we all do stupid things at 17 --- ''

``That's a little bit beyond stupid,'' Ms. Lindsay interjected.

``Really stupid, fine,'' Mr. Trump continued. ``But we all have to let
that process play out.''

Mr. Rittenhouse,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/27/us/kyle-rittenhouse-kenosha.html}{a
Trump supporter who attended one of Mr. Trump's rallies in January},
faces charges including first-degree intentional homicide in connection
with the deaths of Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, who were
protesting the shooting of Jacob Blake.

Ms. Lindsay also asked Mr. Trump about the Black Lives Matter movement.

``It's a very good marketing message, it's a great catchphrase,'' said
Mr. Trump, adding that he agreed with the movement's broad goals, but
not its underlying ideology.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
