Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Fiona Hill Testifies
`Fictions' on Ukraine Pushed by Trump Help Russia

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QGEGSi}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fiona-hill-testifies-fictions-on-ukraine-pushed-by-trump-help-russia}{%
\section{Fiona Hill Testifies `Fictions' on Ukraine Pushed by Trump Help
Russia}\label{fiona-hill-testifies-fictions-on-ukraine-pushed-by-trump-help-russia}}

The former top White House aide denounced a theory that Ukraine
interfered in the 2016 election, as she tied the president's pressure
campaign to Russian efforts to sow political divisions in America.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/21impeach-image6/21impeach-image6-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D.
Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 21, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- A former White House Russia expert on Thursday sharply
denounced a ``fictional narrative'' embraced by President Trump and his
Republican allies that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016
election, testifying that the claim was a fabrication by Moscow that had
harmed the United States.

The expert, Fiona Hill,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/impeachment-hearing.html}{tied
a pressure campaign} on Ukraine by Mr. Trump and some of his top aides
to an effort by Russia to sow political divisions in the United States
and undercut American diplomacy. She warned Republicans that
legitimizing an unsubstantiated theory that Kyiv undertook a concerted
campaign to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/07/16/us/elections/russian-interference-statements-comments.html}{interfere
in the} election --- a claim the president pushed repeatedly for Ukraine
to investigate --- played into Russia's hands.

``In the course of this investigation,'' Dr. Hill testified before the
House Intelligence Committee's impeachment hearings, ``I would ask that
you please not promote politically driven falsehoods that so clearly
advance Russian interests.''

Dr. Hill's account was an indirect rebuke of the president, as she
outlined how some of Mr. Trump's team carried out a ``domestic political
errand'' in opposition to his foreign policy. She also underscored the
national security consequences, noting that ``right now'' Russia was
seeking to interfere in the 2020 election and that ``we are running out
of time to stop them.''

``These fictions are harmful even if they are deployed for purely
domestic political purposes,'' said Dr. Hill, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/who-is-fiona-hill.html}{British-born
daughter of a coal miner} who became a United States citizen and the
White House's top Europe and Russia expert.

She added that Russia readily exploited partisan divisions to undermine
the United States from within.

Both Dr. Hill and David Holmes, a top aide in the United States Embassy
in Kyiv, detailed what they understood to be a concerted campaign that
linked a White House meeting and vital military assistance to an
announcement by Ukraine's president that his country would investigate
2016 election interference and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/politics/21dc-impeach2/merlin_164792364_be9a3c27-b7af-4cb8-90aa-9a2fbc617580-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``Investigations for a meeting'' is how Dr. Hill described her
understanding of the deal laid out by the president's inner circle,
including Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump's personal lawyer; Gordon D.
Sondland, the ambassador to the European Union; and Mick Mulvaney, the
acting White House chief of staff.

The testimony came as Democrats sought to clarify the stakes of the
impeachment proceedings after two weeks of detail-heavy hearings. Dr.
Hill and Mr. Holmes may well have been the final public witnesses called
by the committee, which has begun compiling a written report of its
findings to present to the House Judiciary Committee as soon as next
month.

The House adjourned for Thanksgiving after the session, and it appeared
all but certain that lawmakers would vote to impeach a president for
only the third time in American history, and most likely along party
lines.

At the White House, Republican senators loyal to Mr. Trump huddled with
senior presidential aides and the White House's top lawyer to begin
charting out a Senate trial. Separately, Mr. Trump lunched with another
group of Republican senators, including two occasional critics, Susan
Collins of Maine and Mitt Romney of Utah, though the topic of his
impeachment only briefly came up.

On another front, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina,
signaled his intent to use the Judiciary Committee to mount an
aggressive defense of Mr. Trump by focusing on Mr. Biden. In a letter to
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Mr. Graham asked for documents and
communications with the former vice president, his son Hunter Biden,
other officials from the Obama administration and former President Petro
O. Poroshenko of Ukraine.

During the hearing on Thursday, Republicans bristled at Dr. Hill's
accusation, and after several tangled rounds of questioning, they used
their time to push back on her suggestion that they refused to accept
Russia's role in the 2016 election.

``Needless to say, it's entirely possible for two separate nations to
engage in election meddling at the same time, and Republicans believe we
should take meddling seriously by all foreign countries,'' said
Representative Devin Nunes of California, the panel's top Republican.

Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio, went further, turning Dr.
Hill's words around to accuse Democrats of advancing Russia's interests
by pressing forward on the divisive process of impeachment.

``They are doing exactly what Dr. Hill talked about,'' Mr. Jordan said,
quoting from her opening statement: ``The impact of a 2016 Russian
campaign remains evident today. Our nation is being torn apart.''

In 2017, American intelligence officials released a report
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/06/us/politics/russia-hack-report.html}{concluding
that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered} a state-sponsored
campaign to try to influence the 2016 presidential election. No evidence
has emerged that there was a similar effort by Ukraine.

Dr. Hill conceded during her testimony that Ukraine had ``bet on the
wrong horse'' during the 2016 election, seeking to curry favor with
Hillary Clinton in the belief she would win. But she added that Ukraine
was hardly the only country that did so.

``The difference here, however, is that hasn't had any major impact on
his feelings toward those countries --- not that I have seen,'' Dr. Hill
said, referring to Mr. Trump.

Despite Republican claims to the contrary, Democrats gained new
information that could bolster their case.

Under the Republican counsel's questioning, Dr. Hill said she confronted
Mr. Sondland in July about his failure to coordinate with other members
of the administration on his actions regarding Ukraine. She said she
understood only later that Mr. Sondland was part of a group of
high-ranking officials, including Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Pompeo, who were
``being involved in a domestic political errand, and we were being
involved in national security, foreign policy --- and those two things
had just diverged.''

Mr. Holmes said it was his ``clear understanding'' by the end of August
that Mr. Trump had frozen \$391 million in vital security aid to
pressure Ukraine to commit to announcing an investigation into Mr. Biden
and his family.

Image

Television crews in a hallway outside the hearing room.Credit...T.J.
Kirkpatrick for The New York Times

``By this point,'' Mr. Holmes said, ``my clear impression was that the
security assistance hold was likely intended by the president either as
an expression of dissatisfaction with the Ukrainians who had not yet
agreed to the Burisma-Biden investigation or as an effort to increase
the pressure on them to do so.''

Burisma is a Ukrainian energy company that employed Hunter Biden on its
board.

Mr. Holmes also offered a detailed account of a phone call he overheard
between Mr. Trump and Mr. Sondland in Kyiv on July 26, a day after Mr.
Trump directly asked President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine for the
investigations.

Mr. Holmes said he heard the president ask Mr. Sondland if Mr. Zelensky
would conduct the inquiries he sought. Mr. Sondland assured Mr. Trump
that ``he's going to do it,'' and that the Ukrainian leader would do
``anything you ask him to.'' Afterward, Mr. Holmes testified, the
ambassador told him Mr. Trump did not care about Ukraine, only about
``big things'' like the investigations.

A day after Mr. Sondland laid out an extensive campaign to secure the
political investigations, both witnesses said they had no doubt what Mr.
Trump and Mr. Giuliani were seeking. Dr. Hill and Mr. Holmes both
testified that references to investigating Burisma by Mr. Giuliani and
other government officials were, in Dr. Hill's words, ``code for the
Bidens.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/16/video/xx-impeachment-explainer-vid/xx-impeachment-explainer-vid-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Mr. Sondland and Kurt D. Volker, the former special envoy to Ukraine,
had both said under oath this week that for months they believed Burisma
was merely a reference to Mr. Trump's interest in eliminating rampant
corruption in Ukraine.

``It is not credible to me at all that he was oblivious,'' Dr. Hill said
of Mr. Sondland's insistence that he did not realize that Burisma meant
Biden.

Dr. Hill also offered the most precise account to date of an awkward
White House meeting with Ukrainian officials on July 10 that ended
abruptly after Mr. Sondland told the visiting officials that they would
need to commit to investigations.

John R. Bolton, then the national security adviser, stiffened in his
chair when Mr. Sondland made the comment, and he quickly cut off the
meeting, she said. After the meeting ended, Mr. Sondland explained
precisely what he was up to, Dr. Hill testified, referring to a deal
with Mr. Mulvaney.

``That he had an agreement with Chief of Staff Mulvaney that in return
for investigations, this meeting would get scheduled,'' she said.

Image

Dr. Hill testified that references to Burisma by Mr. Giuliani and
government officials were clearly references to investigations of the
Bidens that the president wanted Ukraine to announce.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

The testimony on Thursday capped the first public impeachment hearings
in two decades. Over two weeks, the Intelligence Committee heard from a
dozen witnesses who described how Mr. Trump and his allies inside and
outside the government shunted aside official American policy toward
Ukraine in favor of an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/11/18/us/politics/trump-ukraine-impeachment-testimony.html}{unorthodox,
politically charged campaign}.

In an impassioned speech closing Thursday's session, Representative Adam
B. Schiff of California, the Intelligence Committee chairman, said it
was clear to him the president had abused his power and tried to bribe
another nation. He drew a direct comparison to Watergate, the scandal
that took down President Richard M. Nixon, pleading with Republicans to
confront an ``unethical president'' who believes he is ``above the
law.''

But neither Mr. Schiff's appeals nor witness testimony has made a
visible dent in the president's Republican support in the House, where
lawmakers offered a variety of defenses, including that there was no
proof that Mr. Trump had done anything wrong.

One of Mr. Trump's few Republican critics, Representative Will Hurd of
Texas, conceded that testimony had shown that the Trump administration
``undermined our national security and undercut Ukraine,'' but said that
it was not enough to justify impeachment.

``An impeachable offense should be compelling, overwhelmingly clear and
unambiguous,'' Mr. Hurd said. ``And it's not something to be rushed or
taken lightly. I have not heard evidence proving the president committed
bribery or extortion.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
