Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Key Moments From Hill and
Holmes's Testimony in the Impeachment Inquiry

\url{https://nyti.ms/37siKQM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{key-moments-from-hill-and-holmess-testimony-in-the-impeachment-inquiry}{%
\section{Key Moments From Hill and Holmes's Testimony in the Impeachment
Inquiry}\label{key-moments-from-hill-and-holmess-testimony-in-the-impeachment-inquiry}}

President Trump's former adviser testified that the pressure campaign on
Ukraine was a ``domestic political errand'' that diverged from U.S.
foreign policy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael
D. Shear}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 21, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/21impeach-image6/21impeach-image6-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-69e7e420}{Hill testified that Ukraine pressure
  campaign was a `domestic political errand.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-30488cd2}{In rebuke to Trump, Hill denounced
  `fictional' claim that Ukraine meddled in 2016 election, benefitting
  Russia.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-7876105c}{Witnesses: `Clear impression' that
  Trump withheld aid for investigations; Burisma was `code' for Biden.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-679b5ee2}{Hill described what Bolton called a
  `drug deal' on Ukraine: `Investigations for a meeting.'}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-46b315d7}{An embassy official testified about
  a memorable phone call that Democrats say links Trump to
  investigations.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-1488119b}{Republicans lectured Dr. Hill
  instead of questioning her and criticized Holmes for offering
  `extraneous' testimony.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-360100b6}{President Trump lashed out on
  Twitter, casting doubt on Holmes's call.}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{hill-testified-that-ukraine-pressure-campaign-was-a-domestic-political-errand}{%
\subsection{Hill testified that Ukraine pressure campaign was a
`domestic political
errand.'}\label{hill-testified-that-ukraine-pressure-campaign-was-a-domestic-political-errand}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/politics/21dc-impeachbriefing-livevid-sub/merlin_164784012_55893262-e940-4646-a918-d62d726a225e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/fiona-hill-trump-impeachment.html}{Fiona
Hill}, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council,
said President Trump's demands for Ukraine to announce investigations
into former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the 2016 elections
amounted to a ``domestic political errand'' that diverged from American
foreign policy goals.

Her testimony made it clear that Dr. Hill, a longtime Russia expert, saw
the pressure campaign on Ukraine as a purely political effort that had
nothing to do with confronting corruption in Ukraine, the explanation
that Mr. Trump and Republicans have frequently given for his actions.

Under questioning from the top Republican counsel on the House
Intelligence Committee, Dr. Hill said she confronted Gordon D. Sondland,
the ambassador to the European Union about his failure to coordinate
with other members of the administration and later realized he was
``being involved in a domestic political errand, and we were being
involved in national security, foreign policy.''

Dr. Hill said she had told Mr. Sondland at the time that, ``this is all
going to blow up. And here we are.''

\hypertarget{in-rebuke-to-trump-hill-denounced-fictional-claim-that-ukraine-meddled-in-2016-election-benefitting-russia}{%
\subsection{In rebuke to Trump, Hill denounced `fictional' claim that
Ukraine meddled in 2016 election, benefitting
Russia.}\label{in-rebuke-to-trump-hill-denounced-fictional-claim-that-ukraine-meddled-in-2016-election-benefitting-russia}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/politics/21vid-impeach-clip-sub/21vid-impeach-clip-sub-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Dr. Hill criticized Republicans on Thursday for propagating a
``fictional narrative'' embraced by President Trump that Ukraine, not
Russia, meddled in the 2016 elections.

In an implicit rebuke to the president she once served, she argued that
the story was planted by Russia and dangerously played into Moscow's
hands, by sowing political divisions in the United States that
adversaries are eager to exploit.

``These fictions are harmful even if they are deployed for purely
domestic political purposes,'' said Dr. Hill,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/who-is-fiona-hill.html}{the
co-author of a 500-page book} analyzing the psyche of President Vladimir
V. Putin of Russia.

``President Putin and the Russian security services operate like a super
PAC,'' Dr. Hill explained. ``They deploy millions of dollars to
weaponize our own political opposition research and false narratives.
When we are consumed by partisan rancor, we cannot combat these external
forces as they seek to divide us against each another, degrade our
institutions, and destroy the faith of the American people in our
democracy.

The impeachment inquiry centers on the accusation that Mr. Trump
withheld a White House visit for Ukraine's president and security aid
for the country as leverage to push the government to announce
investigations into Mr. Biden, and the claim that Ukraine conspired to
help Democrats in the 2016 election.

Dr. Hill called the claim about Ukraine's interference a fake story
invented by Russian intelligence services to destabilize the United
States.

\hypertarget{witnesses-clear-impression-that-trump-withheld-aid-for-investigations-burisma-was-code-for-biden}{%
\subsection{Witnesses: `Clear impression' that Trump withheld aid for
investigations; Burisma was `code' for
Biden.}\label{witnesses-clear-impression-that-trump-withheld-aid-for-investigations-burisma-was-code-for-biden}}

Image

David Holmes, an official from the American Embassy in Ukraine,
testifying Thursday on Capitol Hill.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York
Times

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/us/politics/david-holmes-impeachment.html}{David
Holmes}, a top aide in the United States Embassy in Kyiv, told lawmakers
on Thursday that he became convinced by the end of August that Mr. Trump
had frozen security aid for Ukraine because he was seeking to pressure
the country to commit to an investigation into Mr. Biden.

``By this point,'' Mr. Holmes said, ``my clear impression was that the
security assistance hold was likely intended by the president either as
an expression of dissatisfaction with the Ukrainians who had not yet
agreed to the Burisma/Biden investigation or as an effort to increase
the pressure on them to do so.''

Burisma is a Ukrainian energy company that employed Hunter Biden, the
former vice president's son, on its board.

Both Mr. Holmes and Dr. Hill said it was clear that mentions of Burisma
by Mr. Trump, Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, or others were
clearly references to the investigations that the president wanted
Ukraine to announce.

Kurt D. Volker, the former special envoy to Ukraine, and Mr. Sondland
both testified that they believed Burisma was merely a reference to the
need to eliminate corruption in Ukraine, given the history of corruption
at the company.

But both witnesses on Thursday said unequivocally that Burisma was
``code'' for the Bidens, and that anyone working on Ukraine issues would
know that. Asked whether ``anyone involved in Ukraine matters in the
spring and summer would understand that as well,'' Mr. Holmes had a
one-word answer.

``Yes,'' he said.

\hypertarget{hill-described-what-bolton-called-a-drug-deal-on-ukraine-investigations-for-a-meeting}{%
\subsection{Hill described what Bolton called a `drug deal' on Ukraine:
`Investigations for a
meeting.'}\label{hill-described-what-bolton-called-a-drug-deal-on-ukraine-investigations-for-a-meeting}}

Image

John Bolton, President Trump's former national security adviser, at the
White House in July.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

Dr. Hill described an awkward White House meeting with Ukrainian
officials on July 10 that ended abruptly after Mr. Sondland discussed
pressing Ukraine to investigate Democrats in exchange for a White House
meeting for the country's new president.

Dr. Hill testified that after the meeting ended, Mr. Sondland explained
precisely what he was up to: ``That he had an agreement with chief of
staff Mulvaney that in return for investigations this meeting would get
scheduled.''

When she told John R. Bolton, then the national security adviser, about
that exchange, Dr. Hill testified, he instructed her to tell the
National Security Council's top lawyer about what Mr. Sondland, Mr.
Giuliani and Mr. Mulvaney were up to, and say that, ``I am not part of
whatever drug deal Sondland and Mulvaney are cooking up.''

``I took it to mean investigations for a meeting,'' Dr. Hill added, when
asked what Mr. Bolton meant by ``drug deal.''

Later, Dr. Hill said that Mr. Bolton told her that ``Giuliani's a hand
grenade who's going to blow everybody up.'' She understood that to refer
to Mr. Giuliani's ``incendiary remarks'' on television about Ukraine,
and that he was ``pushing views that would come back to haunt us.''

``In fact,'' she added, ``I think that's where we are today.''

\hypertarget{an-embassy-official-testified-about-a-memorable-phone-call-that-democrats-say-links-trump-to-investigations}{%
\subsection{An embassy official testified about a memorable phone call
that Democrats say links Trump to
investigations.}\label{an-embassy-official-testified-about-a-memorable-phone-call-that-democrats-say-links-trump-to-investigations}}

Image

Congressional aides opening the doors of the hearing room.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

Mr. Holmes provided the first public testimony about a now-infamous July
cellphone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Sondland, a conversation that
Democrats believe establishes that the president was preoccupied with
persuading Ukraine to publicly commit to investigations that benefited
him politically.

He told lawmakers that he could hear Mr. Trump, who was speaking loudly,
asking Mr. Sondland whether Mr. Zelensky was ``going to do the
investigation.'' Mr. Sondland told Mr. Trump that Mr. Zelensky ``loves
your ass,'' and would conduct the investigation and do ``anything you
ask him to,'' Mr. Holmes said.

In Mr. Holmes's account, Mr. Sondland later told him that Mr. Trump
cared only about ``big stuff that benefits the president'' like the
``Biden investigation.'' Mr. Sondland did not dispute that account when
he testified on Wednesday, but said he did not recall specifically
mentioning Mr. Biden.

\hypertarget{republicans-lectured-dr-hill-instead-of-questioning-her-and-criticized-holmes-for-offering-extraneous-testimony}{%
\subsection{Republicans lectured Dr. Hill instead of questioning her and
criticized Holmes for offering `extraneous'
testimony.}\label{republicans-lectured-dr-hill-instead-of-questioning-her-and-criticized-holmes-for-offering-extraneous-testimony}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/21/us/politics/21dc-impeachvid-hill/21dc-impeachvid-hill-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Representative Mike Turner of Ohio laced into Dr. Hill, using his time
during Thursday's hearing to lecture her, rather than question her and
taking issue with her assertion that some Republicans denied that
Russians interfered in the 2016 elections.

In her opening statement, Dr. Hill had said that ``based on questions
and statements I have heard, some of you on this committee appear to
believe that Russia and its security services did not conduct a campaign
against our country.''

Mr. Turner took issue with that statement, calling it a ``little small''
on her part.

``Dr. Hill, you have provided me probably the greatest piece of evidence
that's before us to illustrate the problem with hearsay,'' Mr. Turner
said, pointing her to a Republican report that acknowledged Russian
meddling in the election. ``Dr. Hill, no matter how much we believe we
know that what we've heard is true, it is still just what we've heard.''

Mr. Turner also criticized Mr. Holmes for testifying that Mr. Sondland
told the president that Mr. Zelensky ``loves your ass'' during a
telephone call in Kyiv. Mr. Turner said that Mr. Holmes should not have
used that phrase in his testimony about the call.

``It was anecdotal, it was extraneous,'' Mr. Turner said. ``Your
interests in protecting Ukraine are very dubious when you embarrass
President Zelensky by making those statements you didn't have to make.
Who cares that Ambassador Sondland said that?''

Mr. Turner did not ask a question for either Dr. Hill or Mr. Holmes to
answer, nor did two others Republicans who used their five minutes to
issue critical statements.

A few minutes later, under questioning from a Democratic lawmaker, Dr.
Hill got the chance to respond to the speechifying. She described
herself as a nonpartisan Russia expert who was appearing before the
committee without an agenda.

``We are here to relate to you what we heard, what we saw and what we
did and to be of some help to all of you in really making a very
momentous decision here,'' Dr. Hill said. ``We are not the people who
make that decision.''

Image

``Dr. Hill, no matter how much we believe we know that what we've heard
is true, it is still just what we've heard,'' said Representative Mike
Turner, Republican of Ohio.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times

\hypertarget{president-trump-lashed-out-on-twitter-casting-doubt-on-holmess-call}{%
\subsection{President Trump lashed out on Twitter, casting doubt on
Holmes's
call.}\label{president-trump-lashed-out-on-twitter-casting-doubt-on-holmess-call}}

Mr. Trump followed the day's testimony, repeatedly retweeting Republican
members of the committee who complained about the impeachment process
and insisting that the president had done nothing wrong.

Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump took aim at Mr. Holmes's credibility even
as he began testifying, suggesting there was no way he could have heard
what he claimed to have picked up the cellphone conversation between Mr.
Trump and Mr. Sondland.

The call is an important piece of evidence because it demonstrates that
Mr. Trump was directing members of his administration to push the
Ukrainians for the investigations, but the president on Thursday sought
to cast doubt on its authenticity.

Even before the day's hearing began, the president posted a string of
angry tweets about Democrats and the impeachment investigation.

The Democrats leading the impeachment investigation are
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1197503790729121794}{``human
scum,''} he said.

The public hearings over the last week are ``the most unfair hearings in
American History.'' And, ``never in my wildest dreams'' did he think his
name would be linked to the ``ugly word, Impeachment!''

\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1197499642243670018}{Mr.
Trump also revived} his complaints about the special counsel
investigation into whether his campaign or aides were involved in
Russia's election interference.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
