\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Help Me Find Trump's
`Anarchists' in Portland

\href{https://nyti.ms/3ghYup6}{https://nyti.ms/3ghYup6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/opinion/29kristof1/29kristof1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

\hypertarget{help-me-find-trumps-anarchists-in-portland}{%
\section{Help Me Find Trump's `Anarchists' in
Portland}\label{help-me-find-trumps-anarchists-in-portland}}

The president has his politically driven narrative. And then there's
reality.

A member of the Wall of Moms protesting near the Hatfield Federal
Courthouse in Portland, Ore.Credit...Christopher Lee for The New York
Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/03/opinion/nicholas-kristof/nicholas-kristof-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/column/nicholas-kristof}{Nicholas
Kristof}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

PORTLAND, Ore. --- I've been on the front lines of the protests here,
searching for the
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1287472054527197190}{``radical-left
anarchists''} who President Trump says are on Portland streets each
evening.

I thought I'd found one: a man who for weeks leapt into the fray and has
been shot four times with impact munitions yet keeps coming back. I
figured he must be a crazed anarchist.

But no, he turned out to be \href{https://twitter.com/BryanWolfPDX}{Dr.
Bryan Wolf}, a radiologist who wears his white doctor's jacket and
carries a sign with a red cross and the words ``humanitarian aid.'' He
pleads with federal forces not to shoot or gas protesters.

``Put your gun barrels down!'' he cries out. ``Why are you loading your
grenade launchers? We're just standing ------''

And then they shoot.

Dr. Wolf, an assistant professor at Oregon Health Sciences University,
helps at a medic stand operated by volunteers from the medical school.
Could they be radical-left anarchists? No, they've imposed order on the
anarchy of the street by establishing qualifications for field medics
and a hierarchy among them, so that any badly injured protester will
immediately get the right kind of care.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/opinion/29kristof2/merlin_175021875_ef282a34-aa6e-418a-a05a-db27549672e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Accomplishing all this while tear gas is swirling and impact munitions
are whizzing by, without even asking for insurance cards --- that seems
the opposite of what fanatical anarchists might do.

Maybe the rioting anarchists were in front of the crowd, where there are
discussions about Black Lives Matter? I found musicians and activists
and technicians, who were projecting a huge sign on the wall of a nearby
building --- ``Fed Goons Out of PDX'' --- that seemed a bit geeky for
anarchists.

Oh, wait, there was a man using angry language about the federal
``occupation'' and calling it ``abhorrent.'' Lots of protesters don't
seem to like him, so could he be a crazed anarchist rioter?

Oops, no, that's just Portland Mayor Ted Wheeler, sputtering after being
tear-gassed by the feds.

Then I heard someone calling for the overthrow of Portland's
``leadership,'' and I'd figured I'd finally found an anarchist. But it
turned out to be Maria Bartiromo of Fox News, asking Chad Wolf, the
acting head of homeland security,
``\href{https://twitter.com/revrrlewis/status/1287408409357295617}{Why
can't you just arrest} the leadership in Portland because of their
ignoring what's really happening on the ground?''

She may be a crazed anarchist trying to topple legitimate authority, but
I doubt she's the kind Trump meant.

Image

Demonstrators for Black Lives Matter were part of Sunday's protest in
Portland.Credit...Christopher Lee for The New York Times

Image

The Wall of Moms is now a regular presence at the
protests.Credit...Christopher Lee for The New York Times

OK, I'll fess up: Sure there are anarchists and antifa activists in the
Portland protests, just as there are radiologists and electricians,
lawyers and mechanics. Report on the ground here and any single
narrative feels too simplistic. The protesters aren't all peaceful, nor
are they primarily violent. They're a complicated weave, differing by
time of day.

In the evening, the throngs are entirely peaceful, listening to speeches
about Black Lives Matter, and the authorities do not intervene. Then, as
if following a script, about 11 p.m. some protesters begin to shoot
fireworks or set small trash fires. (No, they're not trying to burn down
the federal courthouse, as Wolf suggests.)

Image

Late-night protesters shooting off fireworks.Credit...Christopher Lee
for The New York Times

Some of these late-night protesters try to provoke the federal forces,
partly to show how federal agents overreact with indiscriminate force.
Meanwhile, Trump is deploying federal forces to provoke protesters into
using violence that he can campaign on.

Provocateurs are found in both the streets and the White House.

We see dueling narratives. One is Trump's, and it portrays Portland and
other cities with protests against police brutality as teetering on the
abyss and requiring his Lincolnesque hand to hold America together. The
other is --- well, shall we call it reality? Yes, there's violence and
vandalism, as well as opportunistic looting, and it'll be a challenge to
manage it, but local officials are much better placed to do so than the
White House.

Oregon and Trump administration officials on Wednesday announced an
agreement to reduce tensions around the federal courthouse. But the
timing and extent of the withdrawal of federal forces was unclear.

I'm against all violent attacks on officers, and I worry that Trump's
provocations are succeeding in seeding violence --- as we've already
seen in Seattle, Oakland and elsewhere. Every time angry progressives
burn a building down, they win votes for Trump.

That's what this is about: politics. The big threat in Portland and
across America is not anarchists but Covid-19, so Trump welcomes street
clashes to change the subject. If he actually cared about the defacement
of the federal courthouse in Portland, he would remove the graffiti;
instead, he leaves it there for photo ops. It's the protesters, not the
federal authorities, who deploy teams each night in Portland to clean up
the area around the courthouse.

It also must be said that while there's violence from both sides, what
I've seen firsthand is that the most violent behavior overwhelmingly
comes from the federal agents, and indeed the most serious injuries have
been suffered by protesters. Your federal tax dollars paid to shoot a
man in the face with a ``less lethal'' munition --- an unprovoked
assault that left him with a fractured skull and possible brain damage.

If you want to call one side ``rioters'' or ``anarchists'' working to
create tumult in Portland, it's the uninvited feds who qualify.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
