Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Why Joe Biden Keeps Missing
His Own V.P. Deadlines

\href{https://nyti.ms/3kjv6ky}{https://nyti.ms/3kjv6ky}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/06/us/elections/results-tennessee-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Tennessee
  Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

political memo

\hypertarget{why-joe-biden-keeps-missing-his-own-vp-deadlines}{%
\section{Why Joe Biden Keeps Missing His Own V.P.
Deadlines}\label{why-joe-biden-keeps-missing-his-own-vp-deadlines}}

On issues big and small, Joseph R. Biden Jr. will not be rushed,
including the critical choice of a running mate. He's deliberative, and
he doesn't mind extending his timetable --- again and again.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/us/politics/07biden-memo1/07biden-memo1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/29/reader-center/author-katie-glueck/author-katie-glueck-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katie-glueck}{Katie
Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 7, 2020Updated 4:57 p.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s campaign staff is making plans to introduce his
eventual vice-presidential choice to key party constituencies. Donors
are readying finance events featuring the still-unnamed running mate ---
``date and time to be announced.'' An in-person reveal is being
discussed.

But as the political world awaits his announcement, Mr. Biden himself
has not appeared to be in a big rush --- no surprise to those who know
him well.

His first self-imposed date for naming a running mate, around Aug. 1,
came and went. The first week of August, another timeline he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/joe-biden-racial-justice-economy-plan.html}{publicly
floated}, is nearly over, and an aide confirmed that an announcement
would not happen this week. Mr. Biden has reached the final stage of his
deliberations and is expected to name his choice shortly before the
Democratic National Convention, which begins on Aug. 17. And while that
is in keeping with the timeline of the two previous Democratic nominees,
it is at odds with Mr. Biden's own words.

``The deadline for a V.P. nomination is the convention,'' said
Representative Cedric Richmond, a co-chairman of Mr. Biden's campaign.
``He's very deliberative with his decision-making. It works.''

This kind of approach --- being openly meditative about the issue at
hand, with a penchant for missing his own deadlines as he mulls his
options --- is in line with how Mr. Biden has made other big political
choices throughout his career. Those who have worked with him over the
years describe nonlinear decision-making processes with input from
allies and family members, a barrage of questions from Mr. Biden, and a
habit of extending deadlines in a way that leaves some Democrats anxious
and annoyed, while others say it brings him to a well-considered
decision, eventually.

\emph{{[}Follow along with The Times's coverage of}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/biden-vice-president}{\emph{Joe
Biden's pick for Vice President}}\emph{.{]}}

That tendency was on display in 2019, as Mr.
Biden\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/07/us/politics/biden-2020.html}{grappled}
with whether to run for president, missing one self-imposed deadline
after another to make a decision. A similar pattern played out ahead of
the 2016 election, when Mr. Biden wrestled for months with whether to
run before ultimately deciding against it, devastated by the 2015 death
of his son Beau.

Ahead of the 2004 presidential race, he engaged in extensive
deliberations about a bid, even going to Boston to discuss the contest
with John F. Kerry, the eventual nominee, before ultimately deciding
against running. He had a moment of indecision just before he announced
his run for president in 1988, too, he wrote in a memoir.

On a different scale, he is routinely late to his own events, he lingers
on rope lines and phone calls, and he and his team were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/05/us/politics/biden-trump-ukraine.html}{slow
to formulate responses} during several pivotal moments of the 2020
contest.

Mr. Biden is not a man who can be rushed, on issues big or small.

And he views the vice-presidential pick as an especially weighty matter.

``He knows when what he's decided really matters,'' said Senator Chris
Coons, Democrat of Delaware. ``He takes time to make those decisions
well. He doesn't struggle to make those decisions, he makes them in a
series. He listens to the relevant experts, he consults the relevant
data.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-07T23:37:27.202Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-77a72de1}{Russia
  is using a variety of tactics to damage the Biden campaign, U.S.
  intelligence officials say.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-1ab01601}{Biden's
  choice of a running mate could define the presidential contest.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4b53533c}{Here's
  why Biden keeps missing his own V.P. deadlines.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

In this case, Mr. Coons said, Mr. Biden has all the data he needs --- he
knows the results of the vetting process and his team has heard a range
of outside opinions. And he heads into the weekend with a few important
conversations left, including, Mr. Coons suggested, with
vice-presidential contenders and trusted advisers. Mr. Biden is weighing
who would make a ``trusted, reliable, capable partner,'' the role, Mr.
Coons said, Mr. Biden filled as Barack Obama's vice president.

``He's taking the time to make sure that he gets the inputs that he
would value, both a chance to hear from people who know well and have
worked closely with the different candidates, but also time to talk to
them directly,'' he said Thursday night, asked where Mr. Biden was in
the process.

Yet as the process has stretched out, each day has also brought
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/joseph-biden-vice-president.html}{intensive
lobbying}, uncertainty for the contenders and, increasingly, visible
factions.

State Senator Annette Taddeo of Florida said she and other lawmakers and
donors had expressed concerns to the campaign about the possible
selection of Representative Karen Bass of California, whose record of
travel to Cuba as a young activist and respectful remarks about Fidel
Castro when he died could alienate voters in Miami.

``It's our job not just to speak up on his behalf but to speak up when
we believe we can avoid an error in the campaign, and that's what I've
been doing,'' said Ms. Taddeo, a member of Mr. Biden's Latino leadership
committee who spoke highly of her fellow Floridian, Representative Val
Demings, and voiced a view privately shared by other prominent Democrats
in South Florida. She continued, ``We need to hurry up and pick and move
on.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/us/politics/07biden-memo2/merlin_151949856_638c00ac-150a-46f8-b0c7-a55cd4064060-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. Bass, who is well-liked across the ideological spectrum of the
Democratic caucus, has said that her views on Cuba had evolved and that
she would not repeat those comments about Mr. Castro. A spokesman
pointed to a supportive statement made by the Cuban-American mayor of
Coral Gables, Fla., Raúl Valdés-Fauli, who praised Ms. Bass's
``commitment to democracy'' and governing experience, and said that
``the Biden-Bass ticket will win Florida.''

Republicans, in the meantime, are previewing their attacks on several of
the potential contenders, including Susan Rice, the former national
security adviser, and Democratic opposition research is also flying,
aimed at cutting down some contenders in the mix.

Senator Kamala Harris has faced sharp questioning from some Biden
supporters about whether she would be loyal to his political agenda ---
an issue that has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/joseph-biden-vice-president.html}{played
out publicly} and created fierce backlash.

``People close to the campaign, to actually start undermining these
candidates, was just wrong and so terribly stereotypical, and a
throwback to the 1950s,'' said Randi Weingarten, the president of the
American Federation of Teachers. ``Joe Biden is being more transparent
than I think virtually any other presidential nominee I've seen before,
but with that unfortunately comes the politics that these incredibly
accomplished women are now facing.''

As the process has turned openly divisive, other Democrats wish Mr.
Biden had adhered to his original stated timeline and named someone by
now. But former Senator Barbara Boxer, who served with Mr. Biden in the
Senate, said that he must have time to deliberate, and that it is useful
to see potential candidates tested under pressure.

``Joe is a person who has very strong views, and he's very smart about
putting out the positive and the negative on any issue,'' Ms. Boxer
said. ``All this chatter about, `hurry up, hurry up' --- I think that's
wrong. Because as we go day by day, we get a chance to see these women
in action.''

Andrew Bates, a Biden spokesman, said that Mr. Biden ``bases
consequential decisions on being informed and hearing from a wide
variety of credible experts,'' arguing that approach stood in contrast
to President Trump's decision-making style.

Mr. Biden is now determining his personal degree of comfort with a
narrowed group of candidates, according to people in touch with the
campaign.

Asked in an interview last week if Mr. Biden had ideas about who fit
that bill, former Senator Harry Reid of Nevada said: ``My knowledge is,
I think he knows within two or three people who he feels comfortable
with. He'll have to narrow it down to number one. He's the only one who
can do that.''

Names frequently discussed in Biden circles over the last week,
according to interviews with top Biden allies, include Ms. Harris, Ms.
Rice and Ms. Bass, along with Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. Some
supporters also remain enthusiastic about Ms. Demings and Senators
Elizabeth Warren and Tammy Duckworth among others, but acknowledge that
there is a fluid process that only Mr. Biden, his wife, his sister and a
few close longtime aides probably have full visibility into.

In the meantime, signs of a public rollout have surfaced. Mr. Biden's
campaign is increasingly considering how the eventual candidate should
engage important political constituencies, and has sought input
regarding the community leaders and organizations the running mate
should contact, and what kinds of events she could do, according to
multiple people familiar with the proceedings.

In a fund-raising appeal sent Thursday, Mr. Biden wrote, ``I'd like to
personally invite you to join me and my running mate for our first
grass-roots fund-raiser together as the official Democratic ticket.''
Details, the message said, will be sent ``once they're finalized.''
Another fund-raising invitation hosted by Women for Biden --- without
specifics on date or time --- was headlined, ``introducing our running
mate.''

Mr. Biden, for his part, has rejected the idea that his search process
has been slower or messier than those of previous nominees.

``It's been very orderly,'' he said during an interview that aired
Thursday with members of the National Association of Black Journalists
and National Association of Hispanic Journalists. ``Every one of the
women we've interviewed is qualified. And I've narrowed it down.''

Added Ms. Weingarten, ``This is one of those moments where you have to
let Joe be Joe, and you have to trust that he knows what he's looking
for and what he needs.''

Jonathan Martin and Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 7, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    A Trump-backed candidate won the Republican Senate primary in
    Tennessee.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
