Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}President Biden's First Day

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Ws5qba}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{president-bidens-first-day}{%
\section{President Biden's First Day}\label{president-bidens-first-day}}

Imagining Jan. 20, 2021.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-brooks}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/david-brooks/david-brooks-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-brooks}{David
Brooks}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/16/opinion/16brooksWeb/merlin_166241295_269bc61c-cb98-4f48-9fb4-cf7d9935716b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The first thing you'll notice is the quiet. If Joe Biden wins this
thing, there will be no disgraceful presidential tweets and no furious
cable segments reacting to them on Inauguration Day.

Donald Trump himself may fume, but hated and alone. The opportunists who
make up his administration will abandon him. Republicans will pretend
they never heard his name. Republican politicians are not going to hang
around a guy they privately hate and who publicly destroyed their
majority.

But there will be a larger quiet, too. For two decades American politics
has centered on a bitter culture war between the white working-class
heartland and university-bred coastal elites.

Bill Clinton, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton were all emblems of this
university class, and it was easy for the Republican media wing to gin
up resentment against them. In 2016, Trump beat Clinton among the white
working class by a crushing 28 points.

But Biden is not an emblem of this coastal elite. His sensibility was
nurtured by his working-class family during the postwar industrial boom
of the 1950s and 1960s. He graduated from the University of Delaware in
1965 and missed the late 1960s culture war that divided a generation.

It's very hard for conservatives to demonize Biden because he comes from
the sort of background that Trumpian conservatives celebrate. He elides
all the culture war divides. He doesn't act superior to the
``deplorables,'' because his family taught him to despise status games
of all sorts.

It will become immediately clear that in a Biden era politics will
shrink back down to normal size. It will be about government programs,
not epic wars about why my sort of people are morally superior to your
sort of people. In the Trump era a lot of people who don't care about
government got manic about politics.

It will also become immediately clear that in a highly ideological age,
America will be led by a man who is not ideological.

This week a few of us columnist types spoke with Biden about his
economic plans. His most telling sentence was, ``I've kind of tried to
shed the labels and focus on the nuts and bolts of this.''

I asked him to describe the big forces that have flattened working-class
wages over the past decades. Other people would have spun grand theories
about broken capitalism or the rise of the corporate oligarchy. But
Biden pointed to two institutional failures --- the way Republicans have
decentralized power and broken Washington and the way Wall Street forces
business leaders to focus obsessively on the short term.

Biden's worldview seems to come mainly from lived experience, not a
manifesto somewhere. He has lived experience of a time when there were
good manufacturing jobs, when unions protected workers, when the less
affluent had a ladder to climb.

His economic agenda, promoted under the slogan ``Build Back Better,'' is
about that, not some vast effort to remake capitalism or build a
Nordic-style welfare system. The agenda is more New Deal than New Left.

In the two speeches he has delivered so far there are constant
references to our manufacturing base --- infrastructure, steelworkers,
engineers, ironworkers, welders, 500,000 charging stations for electric
cars. ``When I think of climate change, the word I think of is jobs,''
he declared.

The agenda pushes enormous resources toward two groups: first,
African-Americans, who have been pummeled by deindustrialization for
decades; and second, white working-class Trump voters. This looks like
an attempt to rebuild the New Deal coalition and win back the white
working class who should be a core of the Democratic base. Biden's
populist ``Buy American'' messaging is just icing on that cake.

Can he pull off this manufacturing revival and this political
realignment?

I'll be curious to see if it's possible to create millions of
manufacturing jobs --- or if technology means there's only a need for
relatively few workers. I'll be curious to see if he can tamp down the
Democratic media and activist wings, with their penchant for wildly
unpopular moral gestures like ``defund the police'' and ``decriminalize
the border.''

I wonder if the economic crisis will obviate all this. With mass
unemployment the need will be to get money out the door immediately on
Day 1. Launching infrastructure projects and clean energy industries
takes a lot of time.

But I do know that if he can win a chunk of the white working class
(\href{https://www.persuasion.community/p/demography-is-not-destiny?utm_medium=email\&utm_campaign=cta}{44
percent of the electorate}, according to Ruy Teixeira), he will realign
American politics. I also know that from that first day the Biden agenda
will put the surviving Republicans in Congress in an awful bind. Do they
cooperate and work with Biden's infrastructure and manufacturing plans?
If they oppose him they give him a clear shot to win their voters while
also inviting him to end the filibuster.

Everybody says Biden is a moderate, and in intellectual and
temperamental terms that is true. But he has found a way to craft an
agenda that could reshape the American economy and the landscape of
American politics in fundamental ways.

Joe Biden may turn out to be what radical centrism looks like.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
