Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kamala Harris Is Hard to
Define Politically. Maybe That's the Point.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2H7JTiP}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kamala-harris-is-hard-to-define-politically-maybe-thats-the-point}{%
\section{Kamala Harris Is Hard to Define Politically. Maybe That's the
Point.}\label{kamala-harris-is-hard-to-define-politically-maybe-thats-the-point}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/13/us/13HARRIS-1/13HARRIS-1-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/astead-w-herndon}{Astead
W. Herndon}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 12, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

If Senator Kamala Harris's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/11/books/kamala-harris-book.html}{book
tour} is a preview of her likely presidential campaign, the early signs
point to a catchall message meant for Democrats across the spectrum.

Speaking Friday night at the 92nd Street Y on New York's Upper East
Side, Ms. Harris covered many bases: her origin story from Oakland to
Capitol Hill, what drew her into public life and the importance of
voters ``seeing themselves'' reflected in the nation's array of leaders.
She cited her work to reform the juvenile criminal justice system in
California as one of her biggest policy accomplishments. She talked
about the necessity for Democrats to work in a bipartisan fashion while
standing strong against a White House that many of their voters view as
corrupt.

It was a broad, biography-heavy message --- not a rigid ideological
mantra --- meant to lay groundwork for a national profile as she
prepares a next possible step: joining
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/11/us/politics/tulsi-gabbard-2020-president-announcement.html}{a
growing field of Democrats} who will compete to take on President Trump.

``Anything worth fighting for is a fight worth having,'' Ms. Harris
said. ``There is a democracy in place, and if we fight --- maybe we
won't win all the time --- but it will matter.''

But as some audience members noted after her remarks, and voters
nationwide may learn soon, almost everything about Ms. Harris is more
complex than it appears.

Though rated as one of the most liberal members of the Senate, Ms.
Harris speaks less about Wall Street corruption and economic populism
than do
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/04/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-iowa.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/23/us/politics/bernie-sanders-president-2020.html}{Bernie
Sanders}, two fellow senators who are also looking to a 2020 matchup
against Mr. Trump. Ms. Harris has built a devoted following because of
her Senate committee interrogations of Trump administration officials,
but she remains disliked by some criminal justice activists who say her
policies as California attorney general and San Francisco district
attorney helped increase the state's prison population.

Even her race and her life story --- she is often described as one of
two African-American women to have served in the Senate --- are more
textured in context: She has a Tamil Indian mother and a Jamaican father
and spent some of her teenage years in Montreal.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Ava Leegant, a surgeon from San Francisco who came to the event
skeptical of Ms. Harris's presidential chances, said she left bullish
about her appeal.

``I didn't think someone from California could speak to all parts of the
country,'' Ms. Leegant said, ``but I was impressed.''

``She's my first choice to be my first choice,'' said Betsy Kagen, a
33-year-old film editor who attended the talk.

The themes of Ms. Harris's new book, ``The Truths We Hold: An American
Journey,'' could help her stand out in a crowded Democratic presidential
primary. More than a dozen candidates are expected to join the
presidential race
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/29/us/politics/2020-democratic-candidates-kamala-elizabeth-warren.html?module=inline}{in
the coming months}, and as the party searches for its next iteration
after two decades of dominance by the Clintons and Barack Obama,
questions of policy, identity and tone in the campaign will be
paramount.

Longtime strategists and admirers of Ms. Harris believe she is well
positioned to create electoral coalitions among Democrats desperate to
beat Mr. Trump, partly because she is not tethered to any one of the
divergent and sometimes warring factions of the party. On MSNBC's
``Morning Joe'' on Friday morning, Ms. Harris was asked, ``Why would you
want to be president?'' and responded by citing the need for leaders who
have a ``vision of our country in which everyone can see themselves.''

``Her message of unity, that's the key,'' said Valoree Celona, a
50-year-old insurance executive who came to the 92nd Street Y with
friends. ``If she can get people to have that hope again, that's what's
important. That's what President Obama did.''

But Ms. Harris would also need to grapple with Democratic rivals who are
more ideologically liberal and may try to move the debate to the left in
ways that could force difficult choices for her.

Mr. Sanders, the Vermont senator and 2016 presidential candidate who is
considering running again, has demonstrated an ability to shift
conversation toward more populist themes like free public colleges and
campaign finance reform. Ms. Warren, the Massachusetts senator who
became
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/12/31/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020-president-announcement.html}{the
first major candidate to announce presidential intentions} and head to
Iowa, has drawn attention for challenging Democratic candidates to
propose a more broad restructuring of American society that would
address economic inequality. Ms. Warren rarely mentioned Mr. Trump on
the campaign trail, and is pushing primary candidates to have a more
policy-driven discussion.

``We need change,'' Ms. Warren said at multiple stops during her Iowa
trip. ``And not just one statute here or one law there. We need big
structural change.''

Rebecca Katz, a progressive political consultant based in New York who
is not working for a 2020 candidate, said she believes that women and
nonwhite candidates are scrutinized more than white male politicians,
yet hopes that Ms. Harris will embrace bold ideas and tell more of her
personal story even if it seems risky. Mo Elleithee, the former
spokesman of the Democratic National Committee who now leads Georgetown
University's Institute of Politics and Public Service, said that much of
the country is still unaware of Ms. Harris, and that she has time to
refine a national narrative that resonates with many groups of
Democrats.

Reviews of Ms. Harris's book have been mixed, as critics have accused
her of
\href{https://reason.com/blog/2019/01/09/kamala-harris-new-book-tries-to-massage}{not
adequately grappling with several controversial stances} she took as
California attorney general and others have
\href{https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/01/kamala-harris-truths-we-hold-review/579430/}{characterized
it as overly reliant on political clichés}.

In the memoir, which was released simultaneously with a children's book
by Ms. Harris called ``Superheroes Are Everywhere,'' she repeatedly
writes that she does not believe in ``false choices.'' This can mean
both meaningful workers' rights and a strong economy, she writes at one
point, but she also applies the concept to police accountability and
public safety.

``I know how hard it is for the officers' families, who have to wonder
if the person they love will be coming home at the end of each shift,''
Ms. Harris writes. ``I also know this: It is a false choice to suggest
you must either be for the police or for police accountability. I am for
both. Most people I know are for both. Let's speak some truth about
that, too.''

Sean Clegg, a longtime political adviser who is expected to play a
senior role in any presidential campaign from Ms. Harris, said that if
she ran she would discuss issues like income inequality, but that the
message would be coupled with a call for partisan healing.

Paul Berkman, a 72-year-old New Yorker who attended the book talk, said
he wished Ms. Harris talked about more policy ideas during her
conversation, which was moderated by the poet Cleo Wade. Mr. Berkman
said he left not knowing her answer to the
``why-are-you-running-for-president'' question every candidate faces.

``She seems like a likable person, but there's so many candidates --- I
want someone to verbalize why it should be them,'' he said.

Sarah Weiss, a 33-year-old book editor, said she was disappointed by Ms.
Harris's talk, especially after the heavy policy focus of Ms. Warren's
trip to Iowa.

``My concern is that she's not liberal enough, and she talks in clichés
that are kind of meaningless,'' Ms. Weiss said of Ms. Harris. ``She
keeps saying there's more that connects us than divides us, but at this
time in politics, it seems like that's not enough.''

At that point her friend Rachel Steinberg chimed in: ``She is not
running for president yet! She doesn't need a platform.''

They agreed to disagree.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
