 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE Â»}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}


\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/pages/opinion/index.html\#sundayreview}{Sunday
Review} \textbar{}A Guide to the Republican Herd, A Divided Pack of
Elephants

Log In

**0

**Settings

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ebOCBe}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  Loading...
\end{enumerate}

See next articles

See previous articles

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{-sunday-review-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/pages/opinion/index.html\#sundayreview}{Sunday
Review} }{ Sunday Review }}\label{-sunday-review-}}

\hypertarget{a-guide-to-the-republican-herd-a-divided-pack-of-elephants}{%
\section{A Guide to the Republican Herd, A Divided Pack of
Elephants}\label{a-guide-to-the-republican-herd-a-divided-pack-of-elephants}}

The Republican electorate has fractured over the policy views and
personal history of Donald J. Trump.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/11/06/sunday-review/another-party-another-fracture-the-democrats-election-2016.html}{Related
Article}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/11/06/sunday-review/another-party-another-fracture-the-democrats-election-2016.html}{Guide
to the Democratic herd}

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Coalition

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Anti-Tax/

Anti-Spending

Coalition

~

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

National Security

Coalition

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Coalition

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Anti-Tax/

Anti-Spending

Coalition

~

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

National Security

Coalition

No Trump

Trump

Alt Right

Biblical

Refuseniks

Cultural

Coalition

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Libertarian

Leaning

Anti-Tax/

Anti-Spending

Coalition

~

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market

Bloc

Interventionists

America

First

National Security

Coalition

Here are rough tribal maps of G.O.P. voter groups, based on ideas from a
variety of political consultants and pollsters. Experts do disagree, so
other analysts will prefer their own classifications.

Elephants, or blocs, are scaled to approximate both voter strength and
their levels of animation --- or agitation --- this year.

Almost all Republican voters depicted here will choose Trump. How many
defectors will sit it out or (gasp) vote for Hillary Clinton? We'll know
Tuesday night. Probably.

\hypertarget{cultural-coalition}{%
\subsection{Cultural Coalition}\label{cultural-coalition}}

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Religious Split

On voting for

Donald Trump.

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Religious Split

On voting for

Donald Trump.

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

No Trump

Trump

Religious Split

On voting for

Donald Trump.

Alt Right

Biblical

Refuseniks

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market

Bloc

Interventionists

America

First

1

Biblical Refuseniks

Can't stomach Trump's personal history; don't trust his devotion to
their cause.

Leaders

Erick Erickson

2

Biblical Bloc

For laws allowing business owners to opt out of serving gays.
Anti-abortion and eager for Trump Supreme Court nominees.

Leaders

Mike Pence, Ted Cruz, Jerry Falwell Jr., James Dobson, Ralph Reed

Agrees with Cultural Protectionist Bloc on

Pro-guns, anti-abortion, anti-gay marriage

3

Cultural Protectionist Bloc

Resentment of diversity and political correctness; emphasis on law and
order; hostility to Black Lives Matter. Opposed to political compromise
and think Trump is right: The country is in decline.

Public Figures

Rudolph Giuliani, Ann Coulter, Laura Ingraham, Ted Nugent

Agrees with Biblical Bloc on

Pro-guns, anti-abortion, anti-gay marriage

4

Alt-Right

Hard-right white subculture of fury against minorities, immigrants,
liberals, establishment.

Home

The internet

Agrees with Cultural Protectionist Bloc on

Anti-immigration

\hypertarget{anti-tax-anti-spending-coalition}{%
\subsection{Anti-Tax, Anti-Spending
Coalition}\label{anti-tax-anti-spending-coalition}}

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

The Economic Split

Center-right and free trade

vs. protectionism and

hard-right conservatism,

a breach that will be hard to mend

no matter who wins.

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

The Economic Split

Center-right and free trade

vs. protectionism and

hard-right conservatism,

a breach that will be hard to mend

no matter who wins.

No Trump

Trump

Alt Right

Biblical

Refuseniks

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market

Bloc

Interventionists

America

First

The Economic Split

Center-right and free trade

vs. protectionism and

hard-right conservatism,

a breach that will be hard to mend

no matter who wins.

1

Free-market Optimist Bloc

Open trade, low regulation, low taxes, shrinking government (except
defense). For immigration reform.

Leaders

Paul Ryan, Mitt Romney --- those sometimes called ``governing
conservatives'' and who get headaches from the burn-it-down Freedom
Caucus set; Chamber of Commerce.

Agrees with Libertarians on

Shrinking government, free trade

2

Populist Pessimist/Anti-Washington Bloc

The aggrieved, burn-it-down heart of the Tea Party and Trump's support:
anti-trade, anti-immigrant, anti-establishment (both politics and
business). Many are blue collar, hit hard by the evolving economy. Less
educated and largely white. Receptive to claims that politics and
elections are rigged. Think America reached its zenith in the 1950s, and
it's been downhill ever since.

Leaders

House Freedom Caucus; Stephen K. Bannon, Trump campaign chief; Sean
Hannity

Agrees with Biblical Bloc and Cultural Protectionist Bloc on

Anti-immigration, an intense dislike of Obama, slashing federal
spending, destroying Obamacare

\subsection{}

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

The Security Split

Defense-minded voters

embracing U.S. military

power vs. isolationism and

resentment of global

obligations and their cost.

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

The Security

Split

Defense-minded voters

embracing U.S. military

power vs. isolationism and

resentment of global

obligations and their cost.

No Trump

Trump

Alt Right

Biblical

Refuseniks

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market

Bloc

Interventionists

America

First

The Security

Split

Defense-minded voters

embracing U.S. military

power vs. isolationism and

resentment of global

obligations and their cost.

1

Interventionists

The neo-con view: Deploy U.S. muscle as needed, which is often.

Agrees with Free-market Bloc on

Defense spending

2

America First

Defeat ISIS; elsewhere, allies need to shoulder more responsibility.

\hypertarget{other}{%
\subsection{Other}\label{other}}

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

Don't Love Trump

Love Trump, Or Can Abide Trump

Alt Right

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Biblical

Refuseniks

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market Bloc

America

First

Interventionists

No Trump

Trump

Alt Right

Biblical

Refuseniks

Cultural

Protectionist

Bloc

Biblical

Bloc

Libertarian

Leaning

Populist Pessimist/

Anti-Washington Bloc

Free-Market

Bloc

Interventionists

America

First

1

Libertarians

Can't stomach Trump or cultural conservatives.

Public Figures

the Koch brothers

Agrees with Free-market Bloc on

Shrinking government, Free trade

Sources: Whit Ayres, North Star Opinion Research; Will Feltus, National
Media; Geoff Garin, Hart Research; PRRI; Jan van Lohuizen, Voter
Consumer Research; Pew Research Center; news reports

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/11/06/sunday-review/another-party-another-fracture-the-democrats-election-2016.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/11/06/sunday-review/another-party-another-fracture-the-democrats-election-2016-1478384138544/another-party-another-fracture-the-democrats-election-2016-1478384138544-mediumThreeByTwo225-v2.jpg}

  \hypertarget{a-guide-to-the-democratic-herd-an-unwieldy-group-of-donkeys}{%
  \subsection{A Guide to the Democratic Herd, An Unwieldy Group of
  Donkeys}\label{a-guide-to-the-democratic-herd-an-unwieldy-group-of-donkeys}}

  Dec. 8, 2016
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/06/sunday-review/dont-gloat-democrats.html}{}

  \hypertarget{dont-gloat-democrats}{%
  \subsection{Don't Gloat, Democrats}\label{dont-gloat-democrats}}

  Dec. 21, 2017

  Whether or not Clinton wins the election, the Democratic Party will
  need to confront its formidable ideological schisms.
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
