Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Washington N.F.L.
Team Coach Ron Rivera Says He Has Cancer

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aHeTBc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{washington-nfl-team-coach-ron-rivera-says-he-has-cancer}{%
\section{Washington N.F.L. Team Coach Ron Rivera Says He Has
Cancer}\label{washington-nfl-team-coach-ron-rivera-says-he-has-cancer}}

In a year of franchise turmoil, Rivera will undergo treatment for
carcinoma while helping to lead organizational change.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/20/sports/20hfo-rivera/merlin_175899615_17d2f2e2-d7b1-4924-ae0a-ead2b6ba4dce-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-rosman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/03/22/multimedia/author-katherine-rosman/author-katherine-rosman-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}
and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/katherine-rosman}{Katherine
Rosman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Ron Rivera, the first-year head coach of the Washington Football Team,
\href{https://twitter.com/WashingtonNFL/status/1296648726983868422}{revealed
on Thursday} that he had squamous cell carcinoma detected in a lymph
node.

Rivera, 58, told the team of the diagnosis Thursday night and said he
would continue coaching even as he receives treatment, which can
severely compromise his immune system and raise his risk of infection
from Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. Rivera's condition
was
\href{https://twitter.com/AdamSchefter/status/1296610136992161792}{first
reported by ESPN.}

Rivera sought treatment after a self-care check and said the cancer was
at an early stage and ``very treatable.'' ``I was stunned,'' Rivera told
ESPN. ``But I was angry because I feel like I'm in best health I've been
in.''

Rivera has had a particularly heavy workload since joining the team
before this season. He not only has been trying to turn around a
flailing team, but has also dealt with changing the organization's
troubled corporate culture.

Rivera's diagnosis comes during a critical phase of training camp, as
players and coaches began wearing pads in practices to get ready for the
upcoming season, which begins in just three weeks.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/sports/football/nfl-preseason-hall-of-fame.html}{Training
camps, which have been altered this year} to reduce the risk of
infection from the coronavirus, include fewer full-contact practices and
in-person meetings and no preseason games.

Rivera is far from the first N.F.L. head coach to confront serious
health issues. Over the years, head coaches including John Fox of the
Denver Broncos and Bill Parcells of the Giants
\href{https://broncoswire.usatoday.com/2017/01/04/11-nfl-coaches-that-battled-health-problems-while-coaching/}{stepped
away from their teams because of heart-related illness}.

In September 2012, Chuck Pagano, then 51 and the coach of the
Indianapolis Colts, took an indefinite leave after a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2012/10/04/sports/football/colts-try-to-focus-as-coach-chuck-pagano-fights-leukemia.html}{leukemia
diagnosis}. His illness became a rallying cry for the players, including
quarterback Andrew Luck, who wore
\href{https://www.si.com/nfl/2019/12/24/chuck-pagano-cancer-leukemia-impact}{T-shirts
with the phrase ``Chuckstrong}.'' That Christmas Eve, Pagano returned to
work in time to see his team qualify for the playoffs after finishing
2-14 the season before.

In 1970, Vince Lombardi was coaching in Washington when he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/1970/09/04/archives/vince-lombardi-football-coach-dies-vince-lombardi-pro-football.html}{received
a colon cancer diagnosis} and died less than three months later at 57.

None of these coaches, though, had to grapple with health issues during
a pandemic, and the risk of infection could change Rivera's plans. He
told ESPN it was ``business as usual'' but that he had a ``Plan B.''

Often, head coaches who temporarily step down appoint one of their
deputies to take over.
\href{https://www.washingtonfootball.com/team/coaches-roster/}{Rivera's
two main lieutenants} are Jack Del Rio --- like Rivera, a former
linebacker --- and Scott Turner. Now a defensive coordinator, Del Rio,
57, was a head coach for 12 years with the Jacksonville Jaguars and the
Oakland Raiders. Turner, 38, is a first-year offensive coordinator and
has been a
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/coaches/TurnSc0.htm}{position
coach at several colleges} and with four other N.F.L. teams, most
recently the Carolina Panthers, where he was Rivera's offensive
coordinator. He is a son of Norv Turner, who coached the Washington team
from 1994-2000.

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\subsubsection{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

\paragraph{}

Updated Sept. 4, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The 146th running of the Kentucky Derby, which was moved to Saturday
    from May 2, will have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/sports/horse-racing/kentucky-derby-odds-picks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{no
    spectators present because of the coronavirus pandemic}.
  \item
    The coronavirus pandemic has had an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/03/sports/ncaafootball/high-school-football-coronavirus-pandemic.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{uneven
    impact on high school football}~across the United States.
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/sports/ncaafootball/coronavirus-cal-athletics-season.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{most
    complicated puzzle in sports is the return of college
    athletics}~during a pandemic. The University of California, Berkeley
    is allowing The Times an inside look at their journey's ups and
    downs.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Even before his diagnosis, Rivera was already thrust into one of the
most chaotic off-seasons any head coach has had to face.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/31/sports/football/ron-rivera-washington-redskins.html}{Hired
by team owner Daniel Snyder} at the end last season after being
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/sports/football/why-was-ron-rivera-fired.html}{fired
by the Panthers}, Rivera was presented as a new face of a franchise
eager to ditch its losing ways. The team has not made the postseason in
five years and has only won two playoff games since Snyder took over the
franchise in 1999.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/sports/20hfo-rivera-print/merlin_175854501_fe509f2a-7073-475d-bfae-f8dffefad1d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Rivera, who led the Panthers to the
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/coaches/RiveRo0.htm}{playoffs
four times in his nine years} there, brought in Turner, Del Rio and
several front office personnel. But his efforts to remake the team hit a
wall when the pandemic forced the N.F.L. to shut down all team
facilities and ban all nonessential travel. This forced Rivera and his
new staff to work remotely and forgo the in-person player interviews and
tryouts essential to the recruiting process. Like all teams, Washington
held virtual off-season workouts.

Then George Floyd was killed while in police custody in Minneapolis at
the end of May, prompting a wave of protests around the country and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/sports/football/nfl-protest-colin-kaepernick-activism.html}{renewed
activism among N.F.L}. players that pushed league executives, including
Commissioner Roger Goodell, to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/sports/football/trump-anthem-kneeling-kaepernick.html}{more
vocally support racial justice}. Rivera condemned Floyd's killing and
said
\href{https://www.washingtonfootball.com/video/head-coach-ron-rivera-i-m-proud-of-everyone-who-is-on-the-right-side-of-the-figh}{he
would support players' protests}. The team launched initiatives to
further ``cultural understanding'' underwritten by a \$250,000 donation
from Snyder.

Within weeks, Snyder
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/sports/football/redskins-ring-of-fame-marshall.html}{removed
the name of George Preston Marshall,} the team's founder, from the
stadium and other locations associated with the franchise. Marshall, who
chose the name ``Redskins'' for the team, a term many consider a racist
slur, was the last owner in the league to sign Black players.

In July, yielding to pressure from some of the team's biggest sponsors,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/sports/football/washington-redskins-new-name.html}{Snyder
said the team would abandon its 87-year old name}. Just three days after
news of the name change, the team's internal turmoil came to light when
The Washington Post
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2020/07/16/redskins-sexual-harassment-larry-michael-alex-santos/?arc404=true}{published
an article} that included claims from 15 women who said they were
sexually harassed while employed by the team. Snyder hired the law firm
Wilkinson Walsh to review the allegations, which include misconduct and
abusive behavior by several team executives and football personnel over
more than a dozen years.

Through all the turmoil, Snyder communicated publicly through issued
statements and left Rivera to speak with the media about these and other
business decisions. Addressing reporters after The Post's article,
Rivera said, ``Dan Snyder brought me here to change culture and create
an environment of inclusion among employees. I believe everyone that
works for this franchise has a vested interest in our success.''

Meantime, Rivera's defensive coordinator, Del Rio, raised eyebrows in
July, when he shared a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/technology/virus-video-trump.html}{viral
video of Stella Immanuel}, a woman who identified herself as a doctor
and made misleading claims about the coronavirus. His support for
Immanuel flew in the face of the league's efforts to safely reopen its
training camps, test players for the virus and educate players on how to
reduce the risk of infection.

Rivera's cultural reset got another test when running back
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2020/08/07/derrius-guice-arrested/}{Derrius
Guice was arrested on domestic violence-related charges} in early
August. Rivera said in a statement that the team's decision to release
Guice, a second-round pick in the 2018 draft, came the same day it
learned of the charges and spoke to Guice.

While helping to select new hires, serving as the public face of the
organization, chiming in on the franchise's branding and navigating its
new approach on race, Rivera has also had to prepare the team for the
upcoming football season.

Rivera said that the rocky start to his tenure in Washington had been
difficult, but that he had no regrets about taking the job. ``This
hasn't dampened my approach and spirit with this organization,''
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/sports/2020/07/28/washingtons-ron-rivera-says-nfl-season-can-still-happen-it-will-require-discipline/}{he
said}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
