Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business}{Business}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}Big-Box Retailers' Profits
Surge as Pandemic Marches On

\url{https://nyti.ms/34hBvHA}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad576bf0-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad576bf1-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad576bf2-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad576bf3-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad579300-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=ad579301-e383-11ea-9f6a-a5fba7157dfa}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{big-box-retailers-profits-surge-as-pandemic-marches-on}{%
\section{Big-Box Retailers' Profits Surge as Pandemic Marches
On}\label{big-box-retailers-profits-surge-as-pandemic-marches-on}}

Walmart and Target reported record sales in the second quarter, driven
by the convenience of one-stop shopping and their e-commerce operations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19virus-bigbox-1/merlin_173030055_6d95cbd4-6f6e-4d07-b3bd-e538cfceca01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Gillian Friedman

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In the early days of the pandemic, when grocery stores in the United
States ran low on staples like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/business/toilet-paper-shortage.html?searchResultPosition=1}{toilet
paper}, people flocked to Walmart and Target to stock up. Five months
later, as the number of coronavirus cases remains high, shoppers
continue to buy from the big-box retailers in record amounts.

On Wednesday, Target reported the greatest percentage increase in
\href{https://investors.target.com/news-releases/news-release-details/target-corporation-reports-second-quarter-earnings\#:~:text=The\%20Company\%20reported\%20GAAP\%20earnings,compared\%20with\%20\%241.82\%20in\%202019.}{quarterly
sales} in the company's history. Walmart, which reported
\href{https://corporate.walmart.com/newsroom/2020/08/18/walmart-releases-q2-fy21-earnings}{earnings}
on Tuesday, doubled its e-commerce sales.
\href{https://ir.homedepot.com/~/media/Files/H/HomeDepot-IR/reports-and-presentations/quarterly-earnings/q2-2020-press-release.pdf}{Home
Depot's sales}increased more than 23 percent in this year's second
quarter.\href{https://s24.q4cdn.com/589059658/files/doc_financials/2020/q2/Q2-2020-Press-Release.pdf}{Wayfair
reported} earlier that its revenue was up roughly 80 percent year over
year.

The success of those retailers can be attributed, in part, to their
one-stop shopping advantage --- both in person and online. It allows
budget-conscious shoppers to pick up groceries, clothing, electronics,
and home goods at the same time.

``In a pandemic, you don't want to make multiple stops, you want to go
to one place that is safe and convenient,'' said Andy Mantis, head of
data insights for the research firm 1010Data.

The pandemic has been devastating for the broader retail industry, with
name-brand companies like
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/business/neiman-marcus-bankruptcy.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Neiman
Marcus}, J. Crew, J.C. Penney and the owner of Men's Wearhouse among
those that have filed for bankruptcy in recent months. But monthly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/business/retail-sales-coronavirus.html?searchResultPosition=1}{retail
sales} --- after plummeting in March and April --- have returned to the
level they were at in February, fed in large part by behemoths like
Amazon, Walmart and Target.

Walmart had strong demand for groceries, as well as for home and
sporting goods. With people still largely stuck at home, Target's
electronics sales surged. Home Depot and Lowe's drew crowds of people
eager to finally tackle home improvement projects, with sales of hard
surface flooring and interior lighting doing especially well.

``These big-box retailers are just perfectly positioned,'' said Andrew
Lipsman, an analyst at the data analytics firm eMarketer. ``They have
basically every tailwind at their back.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/business/19virus-bigbox-2/merlin_175809750_f9c7f95a-bc44-4cac-a296-bfcd52e1427f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For shoppers who wanted to completely avoid in-store shopping, big box
retailers already had robust e-commerce platforms in place that allowed
them to immediately start providing customers with so-called contactless
shopping options, including curbside pickup and home delivery of things
as diverse as groceries and furniture.

``Throughout this crisis, we have deepened our relationship with
American consumers and introduced millions of them to our digital
fulfillment services,'' Target's chief executive, Brian Cornell, said on
an earnings call.

These advantages have won the stores new customers who might have
previously preferred local grocers or hardware stores. Target added 10
million new digital customers in the first half of this year.

``It's creating a massive opportunity, and if they are smart about it,
this is going to help them retain those customers and continue to fuel
their growth,'' Mr. Mantis of 1010Data said.

Whether the retailers are able to sustain this growth will depend partly
on how much disposable income their customers have. The stimulus
payments and \$600 weekly increase to unemployment benefits meant that
millions of unemployed Americans were still able to buy necessities at
stores like Walmart and Target, and in some cases a few extras, like
toys to keep their children entertained at home. But with the \$600
payments now stopped, and Congress still deadlocked on an additional aid
package, some shoppers may have to tighten their belts.

In contrast, many people who have held onto their jobs and are now
working from home full time have found themselves with more
discretionary income than ever before. People who might have spent money
on dining out, travel or event tickets are now redirecting those funds
toward home improvement projects like buying a hot tub, building a home
movie theater, redecorating a home office or building a guest cottage.

``Sales were driven by a consumer focus on the home, core repair and
maintenance activities, and wallet share shift away from other
discretionary spending,'' Lowe's chief executive, Marvin Ellison, said
on Wednesday in an
\href{https://corporate.lowes.com/newsroom/press-releases/lowes-reports-second-quarter-2020-sales-and-earnings-results-08-19-20}{earnings
release}.

Image

An increase in home improvement projects helped sales at Home Depot and
Lowe's.Credit...Johnny Milano for The New York Times

The recent sales growth of big box stores is good for the economy,
keeping supply chains strong and helping ensure job security for the
millions of people the retailers employ, said Matt Williams, managing
partner at the Brand Federation, a consulting firm.

``For the economy, it means consumers are still spending, maybe not at
the same volumes and on the same things as in the past, but they're
still spending,'' Mr. Williams said. ``That's encouraging.''

But it comes with a cost, particularly for small businesses, whose
survival has long been threatened by the increasing dominance of
corporate retailers.

While large retailers like Walmart and Target were deemed essential
businesses when the pandemic hit, many small stores were not, and they
were forced to close their doors, leading to lost revenue and wasted
inventory. Many small businesses did not have a robust e-commerce
business before the virus struck, and they have lost customers while
they struggle to adapt.

People are also less likely to start their own businesses during this
period, unable to muster enough capital or fearful that their businesses
will fail in such uncertain times, said Ryan Gellis, founding partner of
RMG Media, a digital commerce agency.

``It's part of why a pandemic is a tragedy,'' Mr. Gellis said. ``It is
not just the loss of life, but the loss of people's ability to run their
own businesses and pursue that American dream.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
