Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Bill Stepien Takes Helm of
Trump Campaign as a Data-Obsessed Political Fighter

\url{https://nyti.ms/2OyO3Ru}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{bill-stepien-takes-helm-of-trump-campaign-as-a-data-obsessed-political-fighter}{%
\section{Bill Stepien Takes Helm of Trump Campaign as a Data-Obsessed
Political
Fighter}\label{bill-stepien-takes-helm-of-trump-campaign-as-a-data-obsessed-political-fighter}}

Mr. Stepien, a former aide to Chris Christie who has been shadowed by
the Bridgegate scandal, brings a data-centric style to the president's
lagging re-election effort.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/16/us/politics/16stepien/merlin_174612870_cb4b73ba-0e78-422e-ac28-50c2b0eeee83-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-nick-corasaniti/author-nick-corasaniti-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/06/reader-center/author-stephanie-saul/author-stephanie-saul-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nick-corasaniti}{Nick
Corasaniti} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/stephanie-saul}{Stephanie
Saul}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It was a sudden announcement made late Wednesday, one that signaled a
sharp change of direction for the Trump campaign: Bill Stepien, a
longtime political operative and deputy campaign manager for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump}, would succeed Brad Parscale as campaign manager, as the
president's re-election effort struggles to gain its footing.

In Mr. Stepien, Mr. Trump has opted for a more traditional, professional
operative than Mr. Parscale. Mr. Stepien is highly disciplined and data
obsessed. He has been described as both shrewd and ruthless, a
Machiavelli guided by vote-share spreadsheets.

Mr. Parscale at times seemed to seek the spotlight and even spent
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/us/politics/brad-parscale-trump.html}{campaign
money promoting his own Facebook page}; Mr. Stepien is largely his
opposite, preferring to operate completely behind the scenes.

``Stepien will be upset that I'm even speaking to you,'' former Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, whom Mr. Stepien used to work for, said in
an interview. ``He is a guy who is, in my experience with him, allergic
to press attention, or public attention of any kind really.''

He is also no stranger to rough-and-tumble politics.

Mr. Christie fired him over the so-called
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/bridgegate-chris-christie}{Bridgegate
scandal}, in 2013, which embroiled the governor's administration after
it came to light that officials had closed down access lanes to the
George Washington Bridge to punish a political opponent. While Mr.
Stepien denied involvement and was never criminally charged, there were
indications that his hands weren't entirely clean.

An aide to Mr. Christie
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/27/nyregion/bridgegate-trial.html}{testified}
that he told Mr. Stepien well before the scheme was hatched that the
lanes at Fort Lee, on the New Jersey side, could be used to pressure
Mark Sokolich, the town's Democratic mayor, whose endorsement Mr.
Christie sought for his re-election campaign.

Mr. Stepien's name came up repeatedly during the trial, in testimony,
texts and emails, and an internal report found that he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/03/28/nyregion/chris-christie-lawyer-bridge-scandal-report.html}{had
a romantic relationship with Bridget Anne Kelly}, Mr. Christie's former
deputy chief of staff who wrote the infamous ``time for some traffic
problems in Fort Lee'' message.

Though he maintained his innocence, Mr. Stepien declined to cooperate
with federal and state investigators --- at one point invoking his Fifth
Amendment right against self-incrimination rather than comply with a
legislative subpoena.

This year, the Supreme Court
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/us/supreme-court-bridgegate.html}{overturned
the convictions} of two other associates of Mr. Christie's in the
scandal, ruling that it was an abuse of power but not a federal crime.

In firing Mr. Stepien, Mr. Christie cited a ``tone and behavior and
attitude of callous indifference'' in Mr. Stepien's emails that ``made
me lose my confidence in Bill's judgment.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

But the two have since reconciled.

``Even during that period of time, when then-candidate Trump came to me
and asked me in '16 about whether or not he should hire Bill, I told him
he absolutely should,'' said Mr. Christie, who said he now talked with
Mr. Stepien multiple times a week. ``There was not any falling out in
terms of my trust in Bill's skills during that period of time.''

Mr. Stepien, 42, got his start in politics in 1997, when he was still a
student at Rutgers, volunteering for the campaign of State Senator
Anthony R. Bucco of New Jersey. Mr. Stepien would work overnight in the
headquarters, coming after hockey practice to send out mailers to
absentee voters, reminding them to return their ballots on time.

From there, Mr. Stepien slowly climbed the ranks of New Jersey politics.
He served as the driver for a Senate run by Bob Franks in 2000, as a
lower-level staff member for Mr. Franks's race for governor in 2001, and
as the campaign manager for Bill Baroni's State Assembly race in 2003,
in which Mr. Baroni beat a Democratic incumbent in a traditionally
Democratic district.

The Baroni victory put Mr. Stepien on the map in New Jersey. Mike
DuHaime, a longtime New Jersey political operative, brought him into his
consulting firm, a job that led to positions at the Republican National
Committee and on the 2008 presidential campaigns of Rudolph W. Giuliani
and Senator John McCain.

But his political breakout came with Mr. Christie in 2009, when Mr.
Stepien managed his first campaign for governor. Though their opponent,
Jon Corzine, was a vulnerable incumbent, Mr. Christie was also facing an
independent candidate, Chris Daggett, whom internal campaign polls had
at nearly 20 percent, keeping Mr. Christie stuck at 40 percent.

Mr. Stepien, along with Mr. DuHaime and Mr. Christie, hired TargetPoint,
a Republican data firm, to ask Mr. Daggett's supporters whom their
second choice was.

``The ones who would be a Christie second choice, we just crushed them
with mail and digital ads'' against Mr. Daggett, Mr. DuHaime said. ``We
said this is a guy who wants to raise taxes and wants to raise tolls and
gave them all the ideas about why he was further left than they thought.
The Corzine second choice we ignored.''

Mr. Christie went on to beat Mr. Corzine by less than four percentage
points.

In 2016, Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law, hired Mr. Stepien onto
the Trump campaign. Mr. Stepien toiled in the campaign war room, largely
out of the spotlight, setting up field operations in battleground
states. After the 2016 victory, Mr. Stepien joined the White House as
the political director.

He has since been a key political figure inside Mr. Trump's orbit, and
was instrumental in persuading another New Jersey politician,
Representative Jeff Van Drew, to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/19/us/politics/jeff-van-drew-trump.html}{switch
his party registration} from Democratic to Republican.

``He's focused, hard-working,'' Mr. Van Drew said in an interview. ``I
think he's someone who is capable of having an open and honest dialogue
with the president.''

But Mr. Stepien's **** national profile grew as a result of his
associations with Mr. Trump.

A few months after leaving
\href{https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/420207-two-top-trump-aides-leave-white-house-to-join-trumps-reelection-campaign}{his
post at the White House in 2018}, Mr. Stepien joined with Justin R.
Clark, a lawyer who left the White House for the Trump campaign around
the same time, to form a political consulting firm called National
Public Affairs, according to
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6990079-Trump-Campaign-Officials-Are-Moonlighting.html}{corporate
filings}.

Since then, the firm has been paid more than \$650,000 by a number of
down-ballot campaigns, according to campaign finance filings. Mr.
Stepien and Mr. Clark continued their outside political consulting
through at least the end of last month.

Mr. Stepien and Mr. Clark did not respond to questions about whether the
president's campaign had a policy on outside work, or whether they
planned to continue doing it.

Some of their clients are aligned with Mr. Trump's politics, even if
they're not traditional Republicans, such as Gov. Jim Justice of West
Virginia and Mr. Van Drew. But other clients left some national
Republicans scratching their heads.

Mr. Stepien and Mr. Clark's firm was paid more than \$154,000 by the
largely self-financed congressional campaign of Kathaleen Wall, a
Republican Party donor in Houston who lost a bitter House primary runoff
on Tuesday, a race that some in the party fear will leave their hold on
the seat vulnerable in November.

Still, several Republican operatives said that Mr. Stepien's promotion
to campaign manager was a welcome change.

Neil Newhouse, co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies, a polling firm
known for its work with Republican candidates, called Mr. Stepien a ``no
drama kind of guy,'' adding that the shift signaled that the Trump
campaign realizes it is in trouble.

``They've hit the emergency flasher in the campaign,'' Mr. Newhouse
said. ``It's an indication that they realize exactly where they are,
they realize the urgent need to turn this around, and they're sending
out signals that that's what they plan to do.''

The abrupt, late-night announcement from Mr. Trump caught many in the
campaign by surprise, and some were still processing the transition in
an emotional meeting on Thursday morning. A few hours later, Mr. Stepien
issued a statement praising Mr. Parscale and Mr. Trump for the
infrastructure they had built.

``President Trump and Brad Parscale have built an unprecedentedly strong
campaign based on data and technology and Brad will remain heavily
involved,'' Mr. Stepien said. ``We have a better team, better voter
information, a better ground game, better fund-raising, and most
importantly, a better candidate with a better record. With 109 days
left, our goal is clear --- to win each day we have left until Election
Day.''

Mr. Stepien is moving fast: Even before his promotion was announced, he
had already started his personal audit of the campaign, with a current
focus on budgets and structure.

``With Stepien in charge, nothing will fall through the cracks, he will
not miss a detail, and he will clearly make the campaign better,'' Mr.
Christie said. ``But in the end, every campaign is more about the
candidate than it's about anybody else.''

Kenneth P. Vogel contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
