Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}A Timeline of the Coronavirus
Pandemic

\url{https://nyti.ms/3afns4U}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29900-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29901-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29902-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29903-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29904-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=c8d29905-e382-11ea-9004-a3db723e3d7e}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-timeline-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic}{%
\section{A Timeline of the Coronavirus
Pandemic}\label{a-timeline-of-the-coronavirus-pandemic}}

The outbreak of the virus, which began in Wuhan, China, has sickened
more than 14.7 million people. At least 610,200 people have died.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/13/us/13xp-virus-timeline-top/merlin_170999247_6ffb2119-c6bc-4b10-b708-61693971d0b8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/derrick-bryson-taylor}{Derrick
Bryson Taylor}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 6, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200214/coronavirus-timeline/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/china/20200214/coronavirus-timeline/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

The
coronavi\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-us.html}{rus},
which surfaced in a Chinese seafood and poultry market late last year,
has spread to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{at
least 177 countries}, killing more than 610,200 and sickening more than
14.7 million in a matter of months. The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/health/coronavirus-asymptomatic-world-health-organization.html}{World
Health Organization} has declared the situation a pandemic.

Here's a timeline of the outbreak so far.

Dec. 31

\hypertarget{chinese-authorities-treated-dozens-of-cases-of-pneumonia-of-unknown-cause}{%
\subsection{Chinese authorities treated dozens of cases of pneumonia of
unknown
cause.}\label{chinese-authorities-treated-dozens-of-cases-of-pneumonia-of-unknown-cause}}

On Dec. 31,
the\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/06/world/asia/china-SARS-pneumonialike.html}{government
in Wuhan, China, confirmed} that health authorities were treating dozens
of cases. Days later, researchers in China
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/08/health/china-pneumonia-outbreak-virus.html}{identified
a new virus} that had infected dozens of people in Asia. At the time,
there was no evidence that the virus was readily spread by humans.
Health officials in China said they were monitoring it to prevent the
outbreak from developing into something more severe.

Jan. 11

\hypertarget{china-reported-its-first-death}{%
\subsection{China reported its first
death.}\label{china-reported-its-first-death}}

On Jan. 11, Chinese state media reported the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/10/world/asia/china-virus-wuhan-death.html}{first
known death} from an illness caused by the virus, which had infected
dozens of people. The 61-year-old man who died was a regular customer at
the market in Wuhan. The report of his death came just before one of
China's biggest holidays, when hundreds of millions of people travel
across the country.

Jan. 20

\hypertarget{other-countries-including-the-united-states-confirmed-cases}{%
\subsection{Other countries, including the United States, confirmed
cases.}\label{other-countries-including-the-united-states-confirmed-cases}}

The first confirmed cases outside mainland China occurred in Japan,
South Korea and Thailand, according to the W.H.O.'s first
\href{https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200121-sitrep-1-2019-ncov.pdf?sfvrsn=20a99c10_4}{situation
report}. The first confirmed case in the United States came the next day
in Washington State, where
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/21/health/cdc-coronavirus.html}{a
man in his 30s developed symptoms} after returning from a trip to Wuhan.

Jan. 23

\hypertarget{wuhan-a-city-of-more-than-11-million-was-cut-off-by-the-chinese-authorities}{%
\subsection{Wuhan, a city of more than 11 million, was cut off by the
Chinese
authorities.}\label{wuhan-a-city-of-more-than-11-million-was-cut-off-by-the-chinese-authorities}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/11/multimedia/00xp-virustimeline4/merlin_168335142_4eca1f21-e21b-4b97-8b87-dad2489ee05b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Chinese
authorities\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/world/asia/china-coronavirus-travel.html}{closed
off Wuhan} by canceling planes and trains leaving the city, and
suspending buses, subways and ferries within it. At this point, at least
17 people had died and more than 570 others had been infected, including
in Taiwan, Japan, Thailand, South Korea and the United States.

Jan. 30

\hypertarget{the-who-declared-a-global-health-emergency}{%
\subsection{The W.H.O. declared a global health
emergency.}\label{the-who-declared-a-global-health-emergency}}

Amid thousands of new cases in China, a ``public health emergency of
international concern'' was officially
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/health/coronavirus-world-health-organization.html}{declared}by
the W.H.O. China's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said that it would
continue to work with the W.H.O. and other countries to protect public
health, and the U.S.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/world/asia/Coronavirus-travel-advisory-.html}{State
Department warned} travelers to avoid China.

Jan. 31

\hypertarget{the-trump-administration-restricted-travel-from-china}{%
\subsection{The Trump administration restricted travel from
China}\label{the-trump-administration-restricted-travel-from-china}}

The Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/31/business/china-travel-coronavirus.html}{suspended
entry} into the United States by any foreign nationals who had traveled
to China in the past 14 days, excluding the immediate family members of
American citizens or permanent residents. By this date,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/30/world/asia/coronavirus-china.html\#link-6a63a9b7}{213
people had died} and nearly 9,800 had been infected worldwide.

Feb. 2

\hypertarget{the-first-coronavirus-death-was-reported-outside-china}{%
\subsection{The first coronavirus death was reported outside
China.}\label{the-first-coronavirus-death-was-reported-outside-china}}

A 44-year-old man in the Philippines
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/02/world/asia/philippines-coronavirus-china.html}{died
after being infected}, officials said, the first death reported outside
China. By this point, more than 360 people had died.

Feb. 5

\hypertarget{a-cruise-ship-in-japan-quarantined-thousands}{%
\subsection{A cruise ship in Japan quarantined
thousands.}\label{a-cruise-ship-in-japan-quarantined-thousands}}

Image

The Diamond Princess cruise ship on Feb. 9Credit...Eugene
Hoshiko/Associated Press

After a two-week trip to Southeast Asia, more than 3,600 passengers
began
a\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/05/world/asia/japan-coronavirus-cruise-ship.html}{quarantine}
aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Yokohama, Japan. Officials
started screening passengers, and the number of people who tested
positive became the largest number of coronavirus cases outside China.
By Feb. 13, the number
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/12/travel/coronavirus-cruises-travel.html}{stood
at 218}. When they began leaving the ship on Feb. 19, more than 600
people had been infected.

Feb. 7

\hypertarget{a-chinese-doctor-who-tried-to-raise-the-alarm-died}{%
\subsection{A Chinese doctor who tried to raise the alarm
died.}\label{a-chinese-doctor-who-tried-to-raise-the-alarm-died}}

Image

The death of Dr. Li Wenliang provoked anger at how the Chinese
government handled the epidemic.Credit...Tyrone Siu/Reuters

When
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/world/asia/chinese-doctor-Li-Wenliang-coronavirus.html}{Dr.
Li Wenliang}, a Chinese doctor,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/06/world/asia/chinese-doctor-Li-Wenliang-coronavirus.html}{died}after
contracting the coronavirus, he was hailed as a hero by many for trying
to ring early alarms that infections could spin out of control.

In early January, the authorities reprimanded him, and he was forced to
sign a statement denouncing his warning Dr. Li's death
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/07/business/china-coronavirus-doctor-death.html}{provoked
anger and frustration} at how the Chinese government mishandled the
situation.

Feb. 11

\hypertarget{the-disease-the-virus-causes-was-named}{%
\subsection{The disease the virus causes was
named.}\label{the-disease-the-virus-causes-was-named}}

The W.H.O. proposed an official name for the disease the virus
coronavirus causes:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/11/world/asia/coronavirus-china.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Covid-19},
an acronym that stands for coronavirus disease 2019. The name makes no
reference to any of the people, places, or animals associated with the
coronavirus, given the goal to avoid stigma.

Feb. 14

\hypertarget{france-announced-the-first-coronavirus-death-in-europe}{%
\subsection{France announced the first coronavirus death in
Europe.}\label{france-announced-the-first-coronavirus-death-in-europe}}

Image

France's first coronavirus death was the fourth death from the virus
outside of mainland China.Credit...Ian Langsdon/EPA, via Shutterstock

An 80-year-old Chinese tourist
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/15/world/asia/coronavirus-china-live-updates.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage\#link-313a84de}{died
on Feb. 14} at a hospital in Paris, in what was the first coronavirus
death outside Asia, the authorities said. It was the fourth death from
the virus outside mainland China, where about 1,500 people had died,
most of them in Hubei Province.

Feb. 23

\hypertarget{italy-saw-a-major-surge-in-cases}{%
\subsection{Italy saw a major surge in
cases.}\label{italy-saw-a-major-surge-in-cases}}

Image

Officials in Italy locked down 10 towns after a cluster of cases
suddenly emerged near Milan.Credit...Nicola Fossella/EPA, via
Shutterstock

Europe faced its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/23/world/europe/italy-coronavirus.html}{first
major outbreak} as the number of reported cases in Italy grew from fewer
than five to more than 150. In the Lombardy region, officials locked
down 10 towns after a cluster of cases suddenly emerged in Codogno,
southeast of Milan. Schools closed and sporting and cultural events were
canceled.

Feb. 24

\hypertarget{iran-emerged-as-a-second-focus-point}{%
\subsection{Iran emerged as a second focus
point.}\label{iran-emerged-as-a-second-focus-point}}

Image

A number of other countries in the Middle East have reported coronavirus
cases that have been linked back to Iran.Credit...Atta Kenare/Agence
France-Presse --- Getty Images

Iran announced its first two coronavirus cases on Feb. 19. Less than a
week later, the country said it had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/24/world/asia/china-coronavirus.html\#link-755cef26}{61
coronavirus cases} and 12 deaths, more than any other country at the
time but China, and public health experts warned that Iran was a cause
for worry --- its borders are crossed each year by millions of religious
pilgrims, migrant workers and others. Cases in Iraq, Afghanistan,
Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates and one in
Canada, have been traced back to Iran.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T07:46:15.883Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-68774d88}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow alarming incidents on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-26b58724}{Biden
  knocks Trump's pandemic response, and outlines a national strategy.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4e542da3}{U.S.
  health agencies announce moves to confront the flu season and
  plummeting child vaccination rates.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/world/coronavirus-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Feb. 26

\hypertarget{latin-america-reported-its-first-case}{%
\subsection{Latin America reported its first
case.}\label{latin-america-reported-its-first-case}}

Brazilian
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/world/americas/brazil-italy-coronavirus.html}{health
officials} said that a 61-year-old São Paulo man, who had returned
recently from a business trip to Italy, tested positive for the
coronavirus. It was the first known case in Latin America. Officials
also began tracking down other passengers on the flight the man took to
Brazil and others who had contact with him in recent days.

Feb. 29

\hypertarget{the-united-states-reported-a-death}{%
\subsection{The United States reported a
death.}\label{the-united-states-reported-a-death}}

On Feb. 29, the authorities announced that a patient near Seattle had
died from the coronavirus, in what was believed to be the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/29/us/coronavirus-washington-death.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{first
coronavirus death} in the United States at the time. In fact, two people
had died earlier, though their Covid-19 diagnoses were not discovered
until months later.

As the number of global cases rose to nearly 87,000, the Trump
administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/29/world/coronavirus-news.html\#link-63f783d3}{issued
its highest-level warning}, known as a ``do not travel'' warning, for
areas in Italy and South Korea most affected by the virus.

March 3

\hypertarget{us-officials-approved-widespread-testing}{%
\subsection{U.S. officials approved widespread
testing.}\label{us-officials-approved-widespread-testing}}

The C.D.C.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/03/world/coronavirus-live-news-updates.html\#link-79b1dbc8}{lifted
all federal restrictions} on testing for the coronavirus on March 3,
according to Vice President Mike Pence. The news came after the C.D.C.'s
first attempt to produce a diagnostic test kit
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/02/world/coronavirus-updates-news-covid-19.html}{fell
flat}. By this point, the coronavirus had infected more than 90,000
around the globe and killed about 3,000,
\href{https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200303-sitrep-43-covid-19.pdf?sfvrsn=2c21c09c_2}{according
to the W.H.O.}

March 13

\hypertarget{president-trump-declared-a-national-emergency}{%
\subsection{President Trump declared a national
emergency.}\label{president-trump-declared-a-national-emergency}}

Image

President Trump, who declared a national emergency, made millions of
dollars in funds available to states.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York
Times

Mr. Trump
officially\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/coronavirus-news-live-updates.html\#link-37509802}{declared
a national emergency}, and said he was making \$50 billion in federal
funds available to states and territories to combat the coronavirus. He
also said he would give hospitals and doctors more flexibility to
respond to the virus, including making it easier to treat people
remotely.

March 15

\hypertarget{the-cdc-recommended-no-gatherings-of-50-or-more-people-in-the-us}{%
\subsection{The C.D.C. recommended no gatherings of 50 or more people in
the
U.S.}\label{the-cdc-recommended-no-gatherings-of-50-or-more-people-in-the-us}}

Image

Central Park on March 18. President Trump advised citizens to avoid
groups of more than 10.Credit...Juan Arredondo for The New York Times

The C.D.C.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/world/coronavirus-live.html}{advised
no gatherings} of 50 or more people in the United States over the next
eight weeks. The recommendation included weddings, festivals, parades,
concerts, sporting events and conferences. The following day, Mr. Trump
advised citizens to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/16/world/live-coronavirus-news-updates.html}{avoid
groups} of more than 10. New York City's public schools system, the
nation's largest with 1.1 million students,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/15/nyregion/nyc-schools-closed.html}{announced
that it would close}.

March 16

\hypertarget{latin-america-began-to-feel-the-effects}{%
\subsection{Latin America began to feel the
effects.}\label{latin-america-began-to-feel-the-effects}}

Several countries across Latin America
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/16/world/live-coronavirus-news-updates.html}{imposed
restrictions} on their citizens to slow the spread of the virus.
Venezuela announced a nationwide quarantine that began on March 17.
Ecuador and Peru implemented countrywide lockdowns, while Colombia and
Costa Rica closed their borders. However, Jair Bolsonaro, the president
of Brazil, encouraged mass demonstrations by his supporters against his
opponents in congress.

March 17

\hypertarget{the-eu-barred-most-travelers-from-outside-the-bloc}{%
\subsection{The E.U. barred most travelers from outside the
bloc.}\label{the-eu-barred-most-travelers-from-outside-the-bloc}}

Image

The European Union adopted a 30-day ban on non-essential travel to at
least 26 European countries from the rest of the world.Credit...Maria
Contreras Coll for The New York Times

European leaders
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/world/europe/EU-closes-borders-virus.html}{voted
to close off at least 26 countries} to nearly all visitors from the rest
of the world for at least 30 days. The ban on nonessential travel from
outside the bloc was the first coordinated response to the epidemic by
the European Union.

March 19

\hypertarget{for-the-first-time-china-reported-zero-local-infections}{%
\subsection{For the first time, China reported zero local
infections.}\label{for-the-first-time-china-reported-zero-local-infections}}

China reported
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/world/asia/china-coronavirus-zero-infections.html}{no
new local infections} for the previous day, a milestone in the ongoing
fight against the pandemic. The news signaled that an end to China's
epidemic could be in sight.

However, experts said the country would need to see at least 14
consecutive days without new infections for the outbreak to be
considered over. And the announcement did not mean that China recorded
no new coronavirus cases. Officials said that 34 new cases had been
confirmed among people who had arrived in China from elsewhere.

March 24

\hypertarget{the-tokyo-olympics-were-delayed-until-2021}{%
\subsection{The Tokyo Olympics were delayed until
2021.}\label{the-tokyo-olympics-were-delayed-until-2021}}

Officials announced that the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/sports/olympics/coronavirus-summer-olympics-postponed.html}{Summer
Olympics in Tokyo would be postponed} for one year. Only three previous
Games had been canceled, all because of war: in 1916, 1940 and 1944.

March 24

\hypertarget{india-announced-a-21-day-lockdown}{%
\subsection{India announced a 21-day
lockdown.}\label{india-announced-a-21-day-lockdown}}

Image

India ordered a three-week lockdown order for its 1.3 billion citizens,
and officials pledged to spend billions on medical
supplies.Credit...Narinder Nanu/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

One day after the authorities halted all domestic flights, Narendra
Modi, India's prime minister,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/world/asia/india-coronavirus-lockdown.html}{declared
a 21-day lockdown}. While the number of reported cases in India was
about 500, the prime minister pledged to spend about \$2 billion on
medical supplies, isolation rooms, ventilators and training for medical
professionals.

March 26

\hypertarget{the-united-states-led-the-world-in-confirmed-cases}{%
\subsection{The United States led the world in confirmed
cases.}\label{the-united-states-led-the-world-in-confirmed-cases}}

The United States officially became the country
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/26/health/usa-coronavirus-cases.html}{hardest
hit by the pandemic}, with at least 81,321 confirmed infections and more
than 1,000 deaths. This was more reported cases than in China, Italy or
any other country at the time.

March 27

\hypertarget{trump-signed-a-stimulus-bill-into-law}{%
\subsection{Trump signed a stimulus bill into
law.}\label{trump-signed-a-stimulus-bill-into-law}}

Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/27/us/politics/coronavirus-house-voting.html}{signed
a \$2 trillion measure} to respond to the coronavirus pandemic.
Lawmakers said the bill, which passed with overwhelming support, was
imperfect but essential to address the national public health and
economic crisis.

March 30

\hypertarget{more-states-issued-stay-at-home-directives}{%
\subsection{More states issued stay-at-home
directives.}\label{more-states-issued-stay-at-home-directives}}

Virginia, Maryland and Washington, D.C.,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-stay-at-home-order.html}{issued
orders} requiring their residents to stay home. Similar orders went into
effect for Kansas and North Carolina. Other states had previously put
strict measures in place. The new orders meant that least 265 million
Americans were being urged to stay home.

April 2

\hypertarget{cases-topped-a-million-and-millions-lost-their-jobs}{%
\subsection{Cases topped a million, and millions lost their
jobs.}\label{cases-topped-a-million-and-millions-lost-their-jobs}}

By April 2, the pandemic had sickened more than one million people in
171 countries across six continents, killing at least 51,000.

In just a few weeks, the pandemic put nearly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/business/economy/coronavirus-unemployment-claims.html}{10
million Americans out of work}, including a staggering 6.6 million
people who applied for unemployment benefits in the last week of March.
The speed and scale of the job losses was without precedent: Until
March, the worst week for unemployment filings was 695,000 in 1982.

April 6

\hypertarget{prime-minister-boris-johnson-moved-into-intensive-care}{%
\subsection{Prime Minister Boris Johnson moved into intensive
care.}\label{prime-minister-boris-johnson-moved-into-intensive-care}}

Ten days
\href{https://twitter.com/BorisJohnson/status/1243496858095411200}{after
going public} with his coronavirus diagnosis, Prime Minister Boris
Johnson of Britain was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/06/world/europe/boris-johnson-coronavirus-hospital-intensive-care.html}{moved
into intensive care}. The decision was a precaution, according to the
British government, who also said he had been in good spirits. Mr.
Johnson had also asked the foreign secretary, Dominic Raab, to deputize
for him ``where necessary.'' He was released on April 12.

April 10

\hypertarget{cases-surged-in-russia}{%
\subsection{Cases surged in Russia.}\label{cases-surged-in-russia}}

Image

A dramatic increase in coronavirus cases in Moscow, pushed the city's
health care system to its limit.Credit...Sergey Ponomarev for The New
York Times

The number of people hospitalized in Moscow with Covid-19
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/world/europe/coronavirus-russia-moscow-putin.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{doubled
from the previous week}, with two-thirds of the country's 12,000
reported cases in Moscow. The increase in cases pushed Moscow's health
care system to its limit, well before an expected peak.

April 14

\hypertarget{the-global-economy-slid-toward-contraction}{%
\subsection{The global economy slid toward
contraction.}\label{the-global-economy-slid-toward-contraction}}

The International Monetary Fund warned that the global economy was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/us/politics/coronavirus-economy-recession-depression.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{headed
for its worst downturn} since the Great Depression. The organization
predicted the world economy would contract by 3 percent in 2020, a
reversal from its forecast early this year that the world economy would
grow by 3.3 percent.

April 17

\hypertarget{president-trump-encouraged-protests-against-some-state-restrictions}{%
\subsection{President Trump encouraged protests against some state
restrictions.}\label{president-trump-encouraged-protests-against-some-state-restrictions}}

In a series of all-cap tweets, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/17/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-governors.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{encouraged}
right-wing protests of social distancing restrictions in some states.
His call followed protests in Michigan, Minnesota and Ohio where
protesters --- many wearing red ``Make America Great Again'' hats ---
congregated in packed groups around state capitols to demand that
restrictions be lifted and to demonize their governors.

April 21

\hypertarget{officials-discovered-earlier-known-us-coronavirus-deaths-in-california}{%
\subsection{Officials discovered earlier known U.S. coronavirus deaths
in
California.}\label{officials-discovered-earlier-known-us-coronavirus-deaths-in-california}}

Officials in Santa Clara County, Calif., announced that two residents
there died of the coronavirus on Feb. 6 and Feb. 17, making them
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/us/coronavirus-first-united-states-death.html}{the
earliest
known}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/29/us/coronavirus-washington-death.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{victims}
of the pandemic in the United States. The new information, gained from
autopsies of the residents, moved the timeline of the virus's spread in
country weeks earlier than previously understood. .

April 24

\hypertarget{the-european-union-pressured-by-china-watered-down-a-report-on-disinformation}{%
\subsection{The European Union, pressured by China, watered down a
report on
disinformation.}\label{the-european-union-pressured-by-china-watered-down-a-report-on-disinformation}}

The E.U. appeared to succumb to pressure from Beijing and softened
criticism of China
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/world/europe/disinformation-china-eu-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{in
a report on disinformation}about the coronavirus pandemic. While the
initial report was not particularly harsh, European officials delayed
and then rewrote the document to dilute the focus on China, a vital
trading partner.

April 26

\hypertarget{the-global-death-toll-surpassed-200000}{%
\subsection{The global death toll surpassed
200,000.}\label{the-global-death-toll-surpassed-200000}}

Image

The coronavirus had killed more than 200,000 people worldwide by late
April.Credit...Sarah Blesener for The New York Times

By April 26, the coronavirus pandemic had killed more than 200,000
people and sickened more than 2.8 million worldwide, according to data
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{collected
by The New York Times}. The actual toll is higher by an unknown degree,
and will remain so for some time.

April 30

\hypertarget{airlines-announced-rules-requiring-face-masks}{%
\subsection{Airlines announced rules requiring face
masks.}\label{airlines-announced-rules-requiring-face-masks}}

Image

Several major airlines announced new guidelines for passengers and
flight attendants on wearing face masks.Credit...Drew Angerer/Getty
Images

American Airlines and Delta Air Lines said they would require all
passengers and flight attendants
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/business/airlines-masks-coronavirus-passengers.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{to
wear a face covering}. Lufthansa Group --- which owns Lufthansa, Swiss
International Air Lines and Austrian Airlines --- as well as JetBlue and
Frontier Airlines had made similar announcements.

May 5

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-reached-france-in-december-doctors-said-rewriting-the-epidemics-timeline}{%
\subsection{The coronavirus reached France in December, doctors said,
rewriting the epidemic's
timeline.}\label{the-coronavirus-reached-france-in-december-doctors-said-rewriting-the-epidemics-timeline}}

Image

Doctors in France made a discovery that, if verified, would shift
Europe's coronavirus timeline.Credit...Dmitry Kostyukov for The New York
Times

French doctors said that they had discovered that a patient treated for
pneumonia in late December had the coronavirus. If the diagnosis is
verified, it would suggest that the virus
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/world/europe/france-coronavirus-timeline.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{appeared
in Europe nearly a month earlier} than previously understood and days
before Chinese authorities first reported the new illness to the World
Health Organization. The first report of an infection in Europe was on
Jan. 24 in France.

May 13

\hypertarget{a-top-who-official-said-the-coronavirus-may-never-go-away}{%
\subsection{A top W.H.O. official said the coronavirus `may never go
away.'}\label{a-top-who-official-said-the-coronavirus-may-never-go-away}}

Dr. Mike Ryan, the head of the W. H. O.'s health emergencies program,
\href{https://twitter.com/WHO/status/1260591340393357312}{said the
virus} may become ``just another endemic virus in our communities, and
this virus may never go away.'' He also tamped down expectations that
the invention of a vaccine would provide a quick and complete end to the
global crisis.

May 17

\hypertarget{japan-and-germany-two-of-the-worlds-largest-economies-enter-recessions}{%
\subsection{Japan and Germany, two of the world's largest economies,
enter
recessions.}\label{japan-and-germany-two-of-the-worlds-largest-economies-enter-recessions}}

Image

Since the pandemic began, countries around the globe have fallen into a
recession including Japan and Germany.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The
New York Times

Japan, the world's third-largest economy after the United States and
China,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/17/business/japan-recession-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{fell
into a recession} for the first time since 2015. Its economy shrank by
an annualized rate of 3.4 percent in the first three months of the year.

Germany, Europe's largest economy,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus.html?module=STYLN_live_tabs\&variant=1_menu\&region=header\&context=menu\&state=default\&pgtype=Article}{also
fell into a recession}. Its economy suffered its worst contraction since
the 2008 global financial crisis, shrinking by 2.2 percent in the
January-March period from the previous quarter.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

May 22

\hypertarget{infections-in-latin-america-continue-to-rise}{%
\subsection{Infections in Latin America continue to
rise.}\label{infections-in-latin-america-continue-to-rise}}

Image

The number of coronavirus cases across Latin America continues to rise.
Peru is among the hardest hit countries in the world.Credit...Rodrigo
Abd/Associated Press

On May 22, Brazil overtook Russia in reporting the second-highest count
of infections worldwide, reaching more than 330,000. Peru and Chile
ranked among the hardest-hit countries in the world in terms of
infections per capita, around 1 in 300. Data from Ecuador indicated that
it was suffering
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/world/americas/ecuador-deaths-coronavirus.html}{one
of the worst outbreaks in the world}. The United States remained the
global epicenter, with more than 1.6 million cases and the number of
deaths nearing 100,000.

May 27

\hypertarget{coronavirus-deaths-in-the-us-passed-100000}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus deaths in the U.S. passed
100,000.}\label{coronavirus-deaths-in-the-us-passed-100000}}

Four months after the government confirmed the first known case,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/24/us/us-coronavirus-deaths-100000.html}{more
than 100,000 people} who had the coronavirus were recorded dead in the
United States. The death toll was far higher than in any other nation
around the world.

May 29

\hypertarget{india-lifted-lockdown-as-its-cases-skyrocketed}{%
\subsection{India lifted lockdown as its cases
skyrocketed.}\label{india-lifted-lockdown-as-its-cases-skyrocketed}}

More than two months after India went into one of the world's most
severe lockdowns, the country moved to ease restrictions. Experts feared
it was the worst timing: Infections were increasing quickly, including
among migrant workers, leading to outbreaks in villages across Northern
India. Almost half of the country's 160,000 known cases had been traced
to just four cities: New Delhi, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Mumbai, where
hospitals had been overwhelmed.

May 31

\hypertarget{large-protests-drove-concerns-about-new-infections}{%
\subsection{Large protests drove concerns about new
infections.}\label{large-protests-drove-concerns-about-new-infections}}

Image

Large groups protesting the death of George Floyd and police brutality
raised concerns about new outbreaks.Credit...Victor J. Blue for The New
York Times

Mass protests over police violence against black Americans, in the wake
of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/27/us/george-floyd-minneapolis-death.html}{George
Floyd's death} in custody of the Minneapolis Police, spurred concerns
that the gatherings
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/health/protests-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{could
lead to new outbreaks.} By May 31, there had been protests in at least
75 U.S. cities. Demonstrations in many places around the United States,
including in New York City
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-protests.html}{where
most protesters wore masks}, did not produce a surge in cases.

June 4

\hypertarget{coronavirus-tore-into-regions-previously-spared}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus tore into regions previously
spared.}\label{coronavirus-tore-into-regions-previously-spared}}

The number of known cases across the globe grew faster than ever,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/world/middleeast/coronavirus-egypt-america-africa-asia.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{with
more than 100,000 new infections a day}. Densely populated, low- and
middle-income countries across the Middle East, Latin America, Africa
and South Asia were hit the hardest, suggesting bad news for strongmen
and populists who once reaped political points by vaunting low infection
rates as evidence of their leadership's virtues.

June 9

\hypertarget{moscow-ended-lockdown}{%
\subsection{Moscow ended lockdown.}\label{moscow-ended-lockdown}}

Image

Barbershops and beauty salons in Moscow were allowed to reopen on June 9
following a weeks-long lockdown.Credit...Evgenia Novozhenina/Reuters

Moscow's lockdown ended on June 9 as a nationwide vote on extending
President Vladimir V. Putin's rule loomed, and as the city reported more
than 1,000 daily new cases. Barbershops, beauty salons and other
businesses were allowed to reopen. One day before the lockdown was
lifted, Mayor Sergei S. Sobyanin said the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/11/world/europe/coronavirus-deaths-moscow.html}{spread
of the coronavirus in the capita}l had slowed and that the city's
shelter-in-place measures, some of the world's most stringent outside of
China, could be lifted.

June 11

\hypertarget{coronavirus-cases-in-africa-topped-200000}{%
\subsection{Coronavirus cases in Africa topped
200,000.}\label{coronavirus-cases-in-africa-topped-200000}}

The W.H.O. said that it took Africa 98 days to reach 100,000 coronavirus
cases, but only \href{https://news.un.org/en/story/2020/06/1066142}{18
days for that figure to double}. While the sharp rise in cases could be
explained by an increase in testing, the agency said, more than half of
the 54 countries on the continent were experiencing community
transmissions. Ten countries were driving the rise in numbers and
accounted for nearly 80 percent of all cases. South Africa has a quarter
of the total cases.

June 17

\hypertarget{the-outbreak-surged-with-clusters-on-several-continents}{%
\subsection{The outbreak surged, with clusters on several
continents.}\label{the-outbreak-surged-with-clusters-on-several-continents}}

Image

Outbreaks in Latin America, Africa, South Asia and United States have
become the new focus points of the pandemic.Credit...Marco
Longari/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Outbreaks in Latin America, Africa, South Asia and the United States
continued to drive the global caseload. On June 16, more than 140,000
cases were reported and another 166,000 on June 17, two of the three
highest tallies since the outbreak began. Seventy-seven nations have
seen a growth in new cases over the past two weeks, while only 43 have
seen declines.

June 20

\hypertarget{southern-us-states-saw-sharp-rise-in-cases}{%
\subsection{Southern U.S. states saw sharp rise in
cases.}\label{southern-us-states-saw-sharp-rise-in-cases}}

Image

Southern states see a considerable uptick in new
infections.Credit...Cristobal Herrera/EPA, via Shutterstock

On June 20, for the third straight day, Florida and South Carolina broke
their single-day records for new cases. The news came as infection
levels for Missouri and Nevada also reached new highs. On June 19, the
United States reported more than 30,000 new infections, its highest
since May 1, with cases rising in 19 states across the South, West and
Midwest.

June 22

\hypertarget{saudi-arabia-imposed-strict-limits-on-this-years-hajj}{%
\subsection{Saudi Arabia imposed strict limits on this year's
hajj.}\label{saudi-arabia-imposed-strict-limits-on-this-years-hajj}}

Saudi Arabia
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/22/world/middleeast/saudi-arabia-hajj-mecca-pilgrims.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{announced}
that this year's hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca for Muslims, would
welcome ``very limited numbers'' to prevent the spread of the
coronavirus. The authorities said that the event, scheduled for July,
would allow only Saudi pilgrims and noncitizens already inside the
kingdom.

June 30

\hypertarget{the-eu-said-it-would-reopen-borders}{%
\subsection{The E.U. said it would reopen
borders.}\label{the-eu-said-it-would-reopen-borders}}

The European Union
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/world/europe/eu-reopening-blocks-us-travelers.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{prepared
to open to visitors} from 15 countries on July 1, but not to travelers
from the United States, Brazil or Russia. The move puts into effect a
complex policy that seeks to balance health concerns with politics,
diplomacy and the desperate need for tourism revenue. Australia, Canada
and New Zealand were among the approved list of countries. Travelers
from China will be permitted if China reciprocates.

July 1

\hypertarget{iran-announced-new-lockdown-measures}{%
\subsection{Iran announced new lockdown
measures.}\label{iran-announced-new-lockdown-measures}}

Image

Iranians wore face masks go shopping in Tehran's grand bazaar in
Tehran.Credit...Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA, via Shutterstock

As hospitals in Iran filled and the death toll climbed, officials
announced new shutdown measures in cities across 11 provinces. Eight
provinces, including Tehran, the capital, were among the areas
considered red zones. The partial shutdown in Tehran restricted
movement, cut work hours and banned large gatherings like weddings and
funerals.

July 6

\hypertarget{us-deaths-surpassed-130000}{%
\subsection{U.S. deaths surpassed
130,000.}\label{us-deaths-surpassed-130000}}

Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, warned
that the country was still ``knee-deep in the first wave'' of the
pandemic, with more than 130,000 coronavirus deaths and nearly three
million cases. Dr. Fauci said that having more than 50,000 new cases a
day recorded several times in the past week was ``a serious situation
that we have to address immediately.''

July 7

\hypertarget{the-trump-administration-sent-formal-notice-of-us-withdrawal-from-the-who}{%
\subsection{The Trump administration sent formal notice of U.S.
withdrawal from the
W.H.O.}\label{the-trump-administration-sent-formal-notice-of-us-withdrawal-from-the-who}}

The Trump administration notified the United Nations that the United
States was withdrawing from the W.H.O. effective July 6, 2021. The move
would cut off the organization's biggest sources of aid.

July 7

\hypertarget{brazils-president-tested-positive}{%
\subsection{Brazil's president tested
positive.}\label{brazils-president-tested-positive}}

President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{disclosed
on July 7} that he had been infected with the virus, saying that he was
tested after experiencing fatigue, muscle pain and a fever. The news
came after months of denying the seriousness of the pandemic and
brushing aside protective measures, and after more than 65,000
Brazilians had died.

July 10

\hypertarget{us-set-seven-records-in-11-days}{%
\subsection{U.S. set seven records in 11
days.}\label{us-set-seven-records-in-11-days}}

Image

Medical personnel assist patients at a community coronavirus testing
site operated by Cone Health and the county Health Department in
Burlington, N.C. in early July.Credit...Gerry Broome/Associated Press

On July 10, the United States reached 68,000 new cases for the first
time, setting a single-day record for the seventh time in 11 days. The
infection rate was underscored by alarming growth in the South and West.
At least six states had also reported single-day records for new cases:
Georgia, Utah, Montana, North Carolina, Iowa and Ohio.

July 10

\hypertarget{hong-kong-shut-down-schools-amid-a-third-wave}{%
\subsection{Hong Kong shut down schools amid a third
wave.}\label{hong-kong-shut-down-schools-amid-a-third-wave}}

Hong Kong, a city of seven million, has reported more than 1,400 cases
and seven deaths. But on July 10, it shut down its school system as it
worked to contain a third wave of infections, which official reported
included 38 new cases.

The third wave, which comes after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/31/world/asia/coronavirus-china-hong-kong-singapore-south-korea.html}{infections
surged in March} and were contained by May, was a setback for a city
that had
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/19/world/asia/coronavirus-hong-kong.html}{largely
returned to normal}, with restaurants enjoying packed crowds and workers
returning to offices.

July 11

\hypertarget{president-trump-publicly-wore-a-mask-for-the-first-time}{%
\subsection{President Trump publicly wore a mask for the first
time.}\label{president-trump-publicly-wore-a-mask-for-the-first-time}}

Image

President Donald Trump wore a mask while visiting Walter Reed Medical
Center in Bethesda, Md.Credit...Erin Scott for The New York Times

President Trump wore a mask in public for the first time during a visit
to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, following repeated
urging from aides that it was a necessary message to send to Americans
resistant to covering their faces. The president had repeatedly
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/politics/100000007070943/trump-mask-coronavirus.html}{dismissed
suggestions} that he wear a mask, frequently appearing in public spaces
without one and ignoring public health rules in several states.

July 13

\hypertarget{more-than-five-million-americans-lost-health-insurance}{%
\subsection{More than five million Americans lost health
insurance.}\label{more-than-five-million-americans-lost-health-insurance}}

The coronavirus pandemic stripped an estimated 5.4 million Americans of
their health insurance between February and May, a period in which more
adults became uninsured because of job losses than have ever lost
coverage in a single year,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/politics/coronavirus-health-insurance-trump.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{according
to a study}.

July 15

\hypertarget{tokyo-raised-its-pandemic-alert-level}{%
\subsection{Tokyo raised its pandemic alert
level.}\label{tokyo-raised-its-pandemic-alert-level}}

Image

Commuters travel on a train in Tokyo in mid-July.Credit...Philip
Fong/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Days after new cases hit record highs, Tokyo raised its alert level to
``red,'' its highest. In the week before, Tokyo recorded two consecutive
daily records with a peak of 243 cases on July 10. Since February, the
sprawling metropolis of 14 million had reported a total of just under
8,200 cases and 325 deaths.

July 16

\hypertarget{a-study-in-south-korea-found-that-older-children-spread-the-virus-comparably-to-adults}{%
\subsection{A study in South Korea found that older children spread the
virus comparably to
adults.}\label{a-study-in-south-korea-found-that-older-children-spread-the-virus-comparably-to-adults}}

While school districts around the United States struggle with reopening
plans, \href{https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/26/10/20-1315_article}{a
study from South Korea} offered a note of caution. It found that
children between the ages of 10 and 19 can spread the virus at least as
well as adults do, suggesting that middle and high schools in particular
may seed new clusters of infection. Children younger than 10 transmit to
others much less often, according to the study, although the risk is not
zero.

July 17

\hypertarget{india-reached-a-million-coronavirus-cases-and-lockdowns-were-reimposed}{%
\subsection{India reached a million coronavirus cases, and lockdowns
were
reimposed.}\label{india-reached-a-million-coronavirus-cases-and-lockdowns-were-reimposed}}

Image

Members of the Central Reserve Police Force and healthcare workers carry
the body of a coronavirus victim in Srinagar, India, on July
18.Credit...Danish Ismail/Reuters

India on July 17 surpassed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/world/asia/coronavirus-india-million-cases.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{one
million confirmed infections} and 25,000 deaths. The milestones came as
several states and cities had reimposed total and partial lockdowns and
as the country ranked third in the world in infections behind the United
States and Brazil. While India's caseloads continued to climb,
researchers at the
\href{https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3635047}{Massachusetts
Institute of Technology} estimated that by the end of next year, India
would have the worst outbreak in the world.

July 17

\hypertarget{israel-announced-new-restrictions}{%
\subsection{Israel announced new
restrictions.}\label{israel-announced-new-restrictions}}

As the number of new coronavirus infections continued to climb in Israel
and the government faced further criticism of its handling of the
pandemic, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's Office and the Health
Ministry announced new restrictions on gyms, restaurants and beaches.
Since late June, infections in Israel had soared. The nation had been
averaging more than 1,500 cases a day, up from 664 two weeks before.

July 21

\hypertarget{european-leaders-agreed-on-a-857-billion-stimulus-package}{%
\subsection{European leaders agreed on a \$857 billion stimulus
package.}\label{european-leaders-agreed-on-a-857-billion-stimulus-package}}

European Union leaders on July 21
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/world/europe/eu-stimulus-coronavirus.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{agreed
on a large spending package} to rescue their economies from the ruins
caused by the pandemic. The \$857 billion stimulus agreement will
benefit nations hit hardest by the pandemic.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
