\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Val Demings Is on Biden's
V.P. List. Will Her Police Career Hurt or Help?

\url{https://nyti.ms/3hSyelv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29demings1/merlin_175070436_faee7cf8-9afe-4330-bd2a-916034a1e908-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Sections

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\hypertarget{val-demings-is-on-bidens-vp-list-will-her-police-career-hurt-or-help}{%
\section{Val Demings Is on Biden's V.P. List. Will Her Police Career
Hurt or
Help?}\label{val-demings-is-on-bidens-vp-list-will-her-police-career-hurt-or-help}}

The former police chief in Orlando, Fla., Ms. Demings has emerged as a
finalist to be Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s running mate. A review of her
record shows a complicated history with episodes involving police
misconduct.

Crime sharply declined while Val B. Demings served as police chief in
Orlando, but use of force by officers remained high.Credit...Scott A.
Miller/ZUMA Press, via Alamy

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brian-m-rosenthal}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-brian-m-rosenthal/author-brian-m-rosenthal-thumbLarge.jpg}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/28/multimedia/author-patricia-mazzei/author-patricia-mazzei-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/brian-m-rosenthal}{Brian
M. Rosenthal} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/patricia-mazzei}{Patricia
Mazzei}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

An Orlando police officer shoved a 27-year-old Hispanic woman down a
flight of stairs, breaking her ankle. A jury ordered him to pay her
medical bills.

Another officer slammed an 84-year-old World War II veteran to the
ground during a car-towing dispute, resulting in doctors' putting him
into a medically induced coma. The city had to pay him \$880,000.

Outside a Target store, officers investigating a robbery surrounded a
minivan and fired into it nearly a dozen times, critically injuring an
unarmed man. He won a \$750,000 settlement.

The episodes all occurred between 2007 and 2010, long before the ongoing
protests currently sweeping the country, denouncing the disproportionate
use of police force against people of color. If the Orlando police felt
even a fraction of the pressure that departments face today, the
leadership did not bend to it: The chief, Val B. Demings, defended the
officers in each case.

A decade later, Ms. Demings, now a second-term Democratic congresswoman,
has emerged as a finalist to be Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s running mate. She
rose in politics as a Black woman with law enforcement credentials, but
her moment in the spotlight comes as the nation reckons with the
difficult legacy of police brutality and racial discrimination.

If she is chosen as the vice-presidential nominee, her career could
prove to be a political asset against an incumbent president who is
building his re-election campaign around his call for law and order,
while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/politics/trump-police-reform.html}{attacking
Mr. Biden as weak on crime}. But in the aftermath of the death of George
Floyd in Minneapolis, with protests continuing to rock the country, it
could also be a political liability.

``This is an opportunity to change the way things are,'' said David
Porter, a former newspaper columnist active in progressive causes, who
worked for Ms. Demings early in her political career. ``I just don't
know that picking a cop would send the right message right now.''

Police misconduct cases are also the focus of renewed scrutiny for
another top contender for the vice presidency, Senator Kamala Harris,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/09/us/politics/kamala-harris-2020-prosecutor-.html}{who
has been criticized} for not aggressively prosecuting officers accused
of wrongdoing as California's attorney general. And they derailed the
hopes of another candidate, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/politics/amy-klobuchar-biden-vice-president.html}{withdrew
last month} amid criticism that as a prosecutor she had failed to charge
officers accused of misconduct.

In recent weeks, Ms. Demings has become a leading voice calling for
changes in policing, and she has cast herself as an experienced
reformer, repeating that she started out as a social worker and brought
a ``social worker's heart'' to police work. But a review by The New York
Times shows a more complicated record: that of a police leader with a
long history of defending the status quo.

Ms. Demings, 63, spent 27 years in one of the most violent police
departments of its size in the United States. She repeatedly defended
fellow officers, dating at least to 1999, when she helped vindicate a
white chief in a neighboring city of allegations of racial
discrimination. During her time as chief, crime sharply declined, but
police use of force remained high;
\href{http://interactive.orlandosentinel.com/focus-on-force/main/index.html}{a
2015 study by The Orlando Sentinel} showed that in the second half of
Ms. Demings's tenure and during the tenure of her successor, officers
used force at a rate that was twice as high as those of officers at
other departments of similar size.

While she was chief, her department also began arresting people for
violating a years-old ban on distributing food to homeless residents in
city parks.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29demings2/merlin_175049277_e36a676f-c5bd-4240-a21c-9f44d481de76-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

And in Congress, Ms. Demings is one of the only Democrats to co-sponsor
the Protect and Serve Act, which would make it a hate crime to attack a
law enforcement officer.

In an interview this week, Ms. Demings stood by her record on police
accountability, saying she improved hiring practices and increased
officer training. But she said her top priority as chief was addressing
a spike in crime.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``Police work is not a perfect science,'' she said. ``We're there to
clean up messes. And sometimes when you clean up messes, it's not
pretty.''

Supporters said Ms. Demings should not be judged for all the flaws of
policing in America.

``You can't blame Val for institutional racism,'' said Representative
James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the highest-ranking African-American
in Congress.

Mr. Clyburn, who has not endorsed anyone to be Mr. Biden's running mate,
is one of many Democrats who believe Ms. Demings could bring a lot to
the ticket.

She rose from humble roots to become Orlando's first female chief and a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/us/politics/who-is-val-demings.html}{House
manager in Mr. Trump's impeachment trial} this year. Her supporters
believe she could appeal to enough independents, and perhaps even
Republicans, to improve Mr. Biden's prospects in Florida, a battleground
state where major elections are routinely decided by razor-thin margins.

Mr. Biden is expected to announce his decision next week.

Ms. Demings is well liked by colleagues, though for a time she was
confusingly a member of both the centrist and progressive caucuses.

On Tuesday, during a nationally televised hearing, she leveraged her
experience in law enforcement while
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/us/politics/barr-testimony.html}{questioning
the attorney general, William P. Barr}, about the removal of U.S.
attorneys under President Trump. ``As a former police detective, I have
solved many cases based on patterns of behavior, and there is an
alarming pattern I believe that is developing,'' she said. ``It appears
that any time a U.S. attorney investigates the president or those close
to them, he or she is removed and replaced by one of your friends.''

Ms. Demings was born Valdez Butler, the youngest of seven children of a
maid and a janitor. She grew up in a two-room house outside
Jacksonville, and said growing up she experienced racism and the
vestiges of segregation. She has said that her law enforcement career
began in sixth grade, when she served on the school patrol and
intervened in altercations on the bus.

After graduating from Florida State University with a degree in
criminology, she worked for a year at a security company and then for
two years as a counselor to children in foster homes.

In 1983, she heard a radio ad recruiting officers for the Orlando Police
Department and decided to apply.

Ms. Demings rose through the ranks, serving in nearly every part of the
department, including the patrol division, the hostage negotiation team
and the public information office, and earning stellar reviews.

Image

Ms. Demings was elected to Congress in 2016 after her second campaign
for the office.Credit...Frank Torres/Alamy

She also met a fellow officer whom she later married --- Jerry L.
Demings. He became Orlando's first Black police chief in 1998; when she
served as chief, he was the sheriff of Orange County, which encompasses
Orlando. He is now Orange County's mayor.

In 1999, the Gainesville Police Department asked Ms. Demings to help
review its chief, who had resigned after 28 complaints from his 30 Black
officers. Her review cleared the chief, saying they found no evidence of
racial discrimination. The local chapter of
\href{https://ufdc.ufl.edu/UF00028290/06832/1x}{the N.A.A.C.P. derided
the inquiry} as a public relations stunt.

When similar issues arose in Orlando, Ms. Demings often supported police
leadership, including in multiple op-eds in The Sentinel.

``As the highest-ranking African-American member of the Orlando Police
Department, I have read and heard quite enough about the suggestions of
racism, racial profiling and the like,''
\href{https://www.orlandosentinel.com/news/os-xpm-2006-06-23-myword23a-story.html}{she
wrote in 2006}, seeming to try to shut down a conversation that is still
burning years later.

Violent crime **** in Orlando
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2006/07/23/us/orlando-joins-list-of-cities-with-sharp-increase-in-murders.html}{was
at a high} when Ms. Demings became chief the next year. She responded by
focusing on specific neighborhoods and housing complexes, and during her
tenure, violent crime fell by 40 percent.

``If I had not been successful in reducing the crime rate, we know what
people would've said,'' Ms. Demings said recently
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fEOUF9vUdRs}{during a television
appearance}. ```First woman chief, oh my God, she can't handle that
job.'''

But her tenure also was marked by repeated allegations of police
brutality.

The first major case to come across her desk in 2007 involved an officer
who pushed a woman down the stairs at a club where he worked as a
security guard. The officer claimed the woman spit on him and drunkenly
fell. Prosecutors charged her with felony battery on a police officer,
and she lost her job. (They later dropped the charges, but she did not
get her job back, her lawyer said.)

In a rare instance of imposing discipline on an officer, investigators
concluded his version was not accurate and removed two of his vacation
days. But Ms. Demings returned one of the vacation days, citing a
technical mistake in the process.

Perhaps the most scrutinized case she faced occurred in 2010, when
Officer Travis LaMont, then 26, encountered 84-year-old Daniel Daley
arguing with a tow-truck driver outside of a bar.

Mr. Daley urged Mr. LaMont to help, and he later acknowledged tapping
the officer's arm several times. The officer told him to stop, and when
he did not, he performed what is known as a ``dynamic takedown,''
leaning into Mr. Daley with his hip and throwing him to the ground.

Mr. Daley landed on his head and broke his neck.

Ms. Demings defended Mr. LaMont, saying, ``The officer performed the
technique within department guidelines,'' although she said she would
review the guidelines.

That decision set off
\href{https://www.orlandosentinel.com/news/os-xpm-2010-10-19-os-orlando-police-protest-20101019-story.html}{a
protest outside Police Headquarters}; one demonstrator held a sign with
a photo of the veteran wearing a neck brace. ``Threat neutralized,'' it
said, according to The Sentinel.

A jury ordered the city to pay Mr. Daley \$880,000.

That same year, a group of officers pursuing an alleged credit card
thief fired a flurry of shots into a minivan they claimed had rammed
their vehicles, hitting one man at least five times. Video
\href{https://www.policeone.com/officer-shootings/articles/video-of-police-shooting-prompts-dismissal-of-charges-uE6LzN6oQCSbzCaa/}{later
showed} that a police car pushed the minivan into the vehicles.

Again, outrage against the police erupted, and the city paid the man
\$750,000. But the department cleared the officers.

Ms. Demings declined to answer written questions about specific cases
but said she did her best to hold officers accountable.

``I did what I could, when I could and where I could,'' she said in an
email.

Asked in the interview her biggest mistake as chief, she cited the time
her service weapon was stolen from her vehicle.

Image

Ms. Demings served as one of the House impeachment managers during the
Senate trial of President Trump earlier this year.Credit...Erin
Schaff/The New York Times

Dwain Rivers, the longtime head of internal affairs at the Orlando
Police Department, disputed the notion that Ms. Demings was overly
protective of officers accused of misconduct. He said she was limited by
union contracts, but she was as tough as any of the other chiefs for
whom he has worked.

Mr. Rivers said that Ms. Demings had engaged the community and helped
create a professional organization to support Black officers.

Under Ms. Demings, officers used force about 600 times a year, according
to a New York Times analysis of city data. That did not significantly
change during her tenure, although shootings involving police officers
slightly increased. Today, the website MappingPoliceViolence.org
\href{https://mappingpoliceviolence.org/cities}{lists Orlando as the
fourth-worst major city} for police killings per capita, a culture that
activists say stems in part from Ms. Demings's tenure as chief..

``It wouldn't be that high if she had gotten with the community. She
ignored us,'' said Lawanna Gelzer, the president of the Central Florida
chapter of the National Action Network. ``And she gets up and criticizes
other law enforcement agencies. It's hypocritical.''

Ms. Demings has said comparisons are unfair, in part because Orlando has
many bars that attract rowdy crowds.

After Ms. Demings retired in 2011, she ran unsuccessfully for Congress
and for mayor of Orange County. When she ran for Congress a second time
in 2016, police brutality became a major campaign issue in the primary.

Still, with support from the national party, Ms. Demings prevailed,
impressing Democratic officials with her lively speaking style and the
ease of her victory.

``If she had done a bad job as police chief, she wouldn't have been
elected to Congress,'' said John Morgan, a major Democratic donor from
Orlando. Mr. Morgan added, ``If being a police officer and a police
chief is now a liability, then God help the country.''

As protests have swept the nation, Ms. Demings has responded carefully.
She published
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/05/29/my-fellow-brothers-sisters-blue-what-earth-are-you-doing/}{an
op-ed in The Washington Post} entitled, ``My fellow brothers and sisters
in blue, what the hell are you doing?'' But she has declined to say
whether the officers who killed Breonna Taylor should be arrested, as
protesters have demanded.

This spring, before the protests began but after impeachment hearings
increased her profile, Ms. Demings updated
\href{https://valdemings.com/}{her campaign website}. Her logo
previously read ``Chief Val Demings for Congress.'' Now it says ``Val
Demings for Congress.''

Kitty Bennett contributed research.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
