Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/health}{Health}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/health}{Health}\textbar{}Children May Carry Coronavirus
at High Levels, Study Finds

\href{https://nyti.ms/3f9oeCp}{https://nyti.ms/3f9oeCp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/08/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{children-may-carry-coronavirus-at-high-levels-study-finds}{%
\section{Children May Carry Coronavirus at High Levels, Study
Finds}\label{children-may-carry-coronavirus-at-high-levels-study-finds}}

The research does not prove that infected children are contagious, but
it should influence the debate about reopening schools, some experts
said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/science/30VIRUS-CHILDREN1/30VIRUS-CHILDREN1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/apoorva-mandavilli}{Apoorva
Mandavilli}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 30, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/2020/07/31/espanol/ciencia-y-tecnologia/ninos-contagio-coronavirus.html}{Leer
en espa√±ol}

It has been a comforting refrain in the national conversation about
reopening schools: Young children are mostly spared by the coronavirus
and don't seem to spread it to others, at least not very often.

But on Thursday, a study introduced an unwelcome wrinkle into this
smooth narrative.

Infected children
\href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamapediatrics/fullarticle/2768952}{have
at least as much of the coronavirus in their noses and throats} as
infected adults, according to the research. Indeed, children younger
than age 5 may host up to 100 times as much of the virus in the upper
respiratory tract as adults, the authors found.

That measurement does not necessarily prove children are passing the
virus to others. Still, the findings should influence the debate over
reopening schools, several experts said.

``The school situation is so complicated --- there are many nuances
beyond just the scientific one,'' said Dr. Taylor Heald-Sargent, a
pediatric infectious diseases expert at the Ann and Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago, who led the study, published in JAMA
Pediatrics.

``But one takeaway from this is that we can't assume that just because
kids aren't getting sick, or very sick, that they don't have the
virus.''

The study is not without caveats: It was small, and did not specify the
participants' race or sex, or whether they had underlying conditions.
The tests looked for viral RNA, genetic pieces of the coronavirus,
rather than the live virus itself. (Its genetic material is RNA, not
DNA.)

Still, experts were alarmed to learn that young children may carry
significant amounts of the coronavirus.

``I've heard lots of people saying, `Well, kids aren't susceptible, kids
don't get infected.' And this clearly shows that's not true,'' said
Stacey Schultz-Cherry, a virologist at St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital.

``I think this is an important, really important, first step in
understanding the role that kids are playing in transmission.''

Jason Kindrachuk, a virologist at the University of Manitoba, said:
``Now that we're rolling into the end of July and looking at trying to
open up schools the next month, this really needs to be considered.''

The standard diagnostic test amplifies the virus's genetic material in
cycles, with the signal growing brighter each round. The more virus
present in the swab initially, the fewer cycles needed for a clear
result.

Dr. Heald-Sargent, who has a research interest in coronaviruses, began
noticing that children's tests were coming back with low ``cycle
thresholds,'' or C.T.s, suggesting that their samples were teeming with
the virus.

Intrigued, she called the hospital lab on a Sunday and asked to look
back at test results for the past several weeks. ``It wasn't even
something we had set out to look for,'' she said.

She and her colleagues analyzed samples collected with nasopharyngeal
swabs between March 23 and April 27 at drive-through testing sites in
Chicago and from people who came to the hospital for any reason,
including symptoms of Covid-19.

They looked at swabs taken from 145 people: 46 children younger than age
5; 51 children aged 5 to 17; and 48 adults aged 18 to 65. To forestall
criticisms that really ill children would be expected to have a lot of
the virus, the team excluded children who needed oxygen support. Most of
the children in the study reported only a fever or cough, Dr.
Heald-Sargent said.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{back-to-school}{%
\paragraph{Back to School}\label{back-to-school}}

Updated Aug. 8, 2020

The latest highlights as the first students return to U.S. schools.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Health experts say New York State schools are
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/health/coronavirus-ny-schools-reopen.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{in
    a good position to reopen}, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/nyregion/cuomo-schools-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{cleared
    the way}.
  \item
    Many schools spent the summer focused on reopening classrooms. What
    if they had
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/us/remote-learning-fall-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{focused
    on improving remote learning} instead?
  \item
    A mother in Germany describes how her family
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/07/parenting/germany-schools-reopening-children.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{coped
    with the anxiety and uncertainty} of going back to school there.
  \item
    A high school freshman tested positive after two days in class. A
    yearbook editor worries about access to sporting events. We spoke to
    students about
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-students.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{what
    school is like in the age of Covid-19.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

To compare the groups fairly, the team included only children and adults
who had mild to moderate
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/08/05/well/covid-19-symptoms.html}{symptoms}
and for whom they had information about when symptoms began. Dr.
Heald-Sargent left out people who didn't have symptoms and who did not
remember when they had started to feel ill, as well as those who had
symptoms for more than a week before the testing.

The results confirmed Dr. Heald-Sargent's hunch: Older children and
adults had similar C.T.s, with a median of about 11 and ranging up to
17. But children younger than age 5 had significantly lower C.T.s of
about 6.5. The upper limit of the range in these children was a C.T. of
12, however --- still comparable to those of older children and adults.

``It definitely shows that kids do have levels of virus similar to and
maybe even higher than adults,'' Dr. Heald-Sargent said. ``It wouldn't
be surprising if they were able to shed'' the virus and spread it to
others.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/science/30VIRUS-CHILDREN2/merlin_171979788_859ad6e5-7a26-4f54-ab55-3acbf62e70b6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The results are consistent with those from a German
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/05/health/coronavirus-children-transmission-school.html}{study
of 47 infected children} between the ages 1 and 11, which showed that
children who did not have symptoms had viral loads as high as adults',
or higher. And a recent study from France found that asymptomatic
children had
\href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa1044/5876373}{C.T.
values similar} to those of children with symptoms.

C.T. values are a reasonable proxy for the amount of coronavirus
present, said Dr. Kindrachuk, who relied on this metric during the Ebola
outbreaks in West Africa.

Still, he and others said that ideally researchers would grow infectious
virus from samples, rather than test only for the virus's RNA.

``I suspect that it probably will translate into meaning that there is
more actual virus there as well, but we can't say that without seeing
the data,'' said Juliet Morrison, a virologist at the University of
California, Riverside.

Some RNA viruses multiply quickly and are prone to genetic errors that
render the virus incapable of infecting cells. Some RNA detected in
children may represent these ``defective'' viruses: ``We need to
understand how much of that is actually infectious virus,'' Dr.
Schultz-Cherry said.

(The researchers said they did not have access to the type of
high-security lab required to grow infectious coronavirus, but other
teams \href{https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32603290/}{have cultivated
virus} from children's samples.)

The experts all emphasized that the findings at least indicate that
children can be infected. Those who harbor a lot of virus may spread it
to others in their households, or to teachers and other school staff
members when schools reopen.

Many school districts are planning to protect students and staff members
by implementing physical distancing, cloth face coverings and hand
hygiene. But it's unclear how well staff members and teachers can keep
young children from getting too close to others, Dr. Kindrachuk said.

``Frankly, I just haven't seen a lot of discussion about how that aspect
is going to be controlled,'' he said.

\textbf{\emph{{[}}\href{http://on.fb.me/1paTQ1h}{\emph{Like the Science
Times page on Facebook.}}} ****** \emph{\textbar{} Sign up for the}
\textbf{\href{http://nyti.ms/1MbHaRU}{\emph{Science Times
newsletter.}}\emph{{]}}}

Observations from schools in several countries have suggested that, at
least in places with mild outbreaks and preventive measures in place,
children do not seem to spread the coronavirus to others efficiently.

Strong immune responses in children could limit both how much virus they
can spread to others and for how long. The children's overall health,
underlying conditions such as obesity or diabetes, and sex may also
influence the ability to transmit the virus.

Some experts have suggested that children
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/30/us/coronavirus-schools-reopening-guidelines-aap.html}{may
transmit less virus} because of their smaller lung capacity, height or
other physical aspects.

Dr. Morrison dismissed those suggestions. The virus is shed from the
upper respiratory tract, not the lungs, she noted.

``We are going to be reopening day care and elementary schools,'' she
said. If these results hold up, ``then yeah, I'd be worried.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{¬©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
