Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

The T List: Five Things We Recommend This Week

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ggqXKQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-t-list-five-things-we-recommend-this-week}{%
\section{The T List: Five Things We Recommend This
Week}\label{the-t-list-five-things-we-recommend-this-week}}

A Oaxacan resort, fine jewelry inspired by crudités --- and more.

Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\emph{Welcome to the T List, a newsletter from the editors of T
Magazine. Each week, we're sharing things we're eating, wearing,
listening to or coveting now.}
\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/t-list?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}}} \emph{\textbf{to find us in your inbox every Wednesday.}}
\emph{You can always reach us at}
\href{mailto:tlist@NYTimes.com}{\emph{tlist@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{book-this}{%
\subsubsection{Book This}\label{book-this}}

\hypertarget{an-elemental-retreat-on-the-wild-oaxacan-coast}{%
\subsection{An Elemental Retreat on the Wild Oaxacan
Coast}\label{an-elemental-retreat-on-the-wild-oaxacan-coast}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/t-magazine/19tmag-newsletter-slide-OHNJ/19tmag-newsletter-slide-OHNJ-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Michaela Trimble

For over 20 years, the Mexican creative director Alan V. Favero has
vacationed on the Oaxacan coast. Eventually, he purchased his own land
in the fishing village of San Agustinillo so that he could build
\href{https://www.monteuzulu.com/en/?campaign_id=0\&emc=edit_tmag_20200818\&instance_id=0\&nl=the-t-list\&regi_id=0\&segment_id=0\&te=1\&user_id=be464ca5f03720b0f126373c15a15dcc}{Monte
Uzulu}. An hour south of Puerto Escondido and perched atop a lush hill
with views of the Pacific Ocean, the minimalist resort was
conceptualized by architect Mariana Ruiz in collaboration with lighting
designer Paola Jose of the creative studio
\href{https://s-ombra.com/en/field-of-light}{Sombra} and Favero's
interior and industrial design firm,
\href{https://www.tallerluum.com.mx/?campaign_id=0\&emc=edit_tmag_20200818\&instance_id=0\&nl=the-t-list\&regi_id=0\&segment_id=0\&te=1\&user_id=be464ca5f03720b0f126373c15a15dcc}{Taller
Lu'um,} which routinely collaborates with more than 15 different artisan
groups across Mexico to preserve centuries-old techniques. Built with an
eye to maintaining the natural balance of the local ecosystem, the 11
bohemian suites offer sun-drenched terraces and feature sustainable
\emph{macuilí} wood furniture carved by local carpenters, straw lamps
and handmade basketwork made in Michoacán, along with cobalt cotton
textiles woven in nearby Teotitlán del Valle. After a weeklong residency
at the property, mother-son duo Karen Drijanski and Eduardo Plaschinski
(of
\href{https://niddo.mx/?campaign_id=0\&emc=edit_tmag_20200818\&instance_id=0\&nl=the-t-list\&regi_id=0\&segment_id=0\&te=1\&user_id=be464ca5f03720b0f126373c15a15dcc}{Niddo},
Mexico City's most revered cafe) inspired the menu at the property's
restaurant, Temporada, which is made up of dishes that highlight the
flavors of Oaxaca's generous bounty. \emph{Rooms start at \$128,}
\href{https://www.monteuzulu.com}{\emph{monteuzulu.com}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{drink-this}{%
\subsubsection{Drink This}\label{drink-this}}

\hypertarget{rosie-assoulins-new-raw-wine-vivanterre}{%
\subsection{Rosie Assoulin's New Raw Wine,
Vivanterre}\label{rosie-assoulins-new-raw-wine-vivanterre}}

Image

From left: Vivanterre Contact SGU (\$30) and Vivanterre Gamay MVB
(\$35).Credit...Courtesy of Nicole Cohen

By Thessaly La Force

A couple of years ago, the New York-based fashion designer Rosie
Assoulin got bitten by the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/dining/drinks/orange-wine-skin-contact.html}{orange
wine} bug. ``I became obsessive and **** would look for it everywhere,''
she recalled. She told her husband and business partner, Max --- the duo
work not only on Assoulin's popular namesake brand but also their latest
clothing line, By Any Other Name --- that they were going to make their
own orange wine one day. ``He ignored me,'' she added with a laugh. Skip
ahead to around this time last year, and the pair were in the Auvergne
region of France, examining the grape harvest. This week, they are
launching Vivanterre with two debut vintages: a Gamay and an orange
wine. They worked with natural winemakers Patrick Bouju and Justine
Loiseau, as well as Cedric Nicaise (the wine director of Eleven Madison
Park) to refine the taste. And they asked Omar Sosa of Apartamento
magazine to design the labels, which evoke the sun as well as the
terroir and the crunchy wax seals of older wines. For the Assoulins,
making their own organic vintages makes perfect sense in this moment.
``We want to connect with other human beings --- we're aware of meals
and family time, and what sharing a bottle of wine means to us,'' said
Assoulin, who noted that Vivanterre translates to ``living earth'' in
French. ``Almost everyone has, in some way, a \emph{potager} (kitchen
garden), even if it's just scallions growing in a Mason jar on a
windowsill. We're all reckoning with nature, and it's something we need
to make the center of our conversations.'' \emph{From \$30,}
\href{https://vivanterre.com}{\emph{vivanterre.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{buy-this}{%
\subsubsection{Buy This}\label{buy-this}}

\hypertarget{leather-unisex-sandals-built-for-comfort-and-style}{%
\subsection{Leather Unisex Sandals Built for Comfort and
Style}\label{leather-unisex-sandals-built-for-comfort-and-style}}

Image

Left: the Emme Parsons Bari sandal in black. Right, from top: the Bari
sandal in tan suede and tobacco and the Simone sandal in
black.Credit...Left: Charlie Ann Max. Right: Dimitri Newman

By Jameson Montgomery

Gender inclusivity in fashion has made great strides, but footwear
always seems to be one step behind. Rarely does a shoe come in a
full-size range for all potential customers. Enter Emme Parsons, whose
Los Angeles-based, eponymous footwear line is already admirable for its
elegant craftsmanship and commitment to sustainability. Parsons recently
revisited two of her best-selling styles, the Bari and the Simone ---
both names are of Italian origin (where Parsons's production takes
place) and have historically been gender nonspecific --- updating them
with thicker straps and a welted leather \emph{fussbett} (``footbed'' in
German), a 19th-century innovation that replaces the shoe's flat insole
with a form-fitting alternative. Fussbetts are quite comfortable and
healthier for feet in motion. What's more, when Parsons learned she
could produce both the Bari and Simone in sizes up to IT46, she knew it
was a perfect opportunity to offer her well-designed staples to the men
and women whom her current shoes didn't fit. ``Our customers are drawn
to styles that are comfort-focused and easy to slip on and off but still
feel refined and elevated,'' she said. As a cross-department shopper
myself, it's a relief to know my days of longing for a testosterone-free
sandal are over.
\href{https://www.emmeparsons.com}{\emph{emmeparsons.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{try-this}{%
\subsubsection{Try This}\label{try-this}}

\hypertarget{4-restoring-lip-balms-for-the-end-of-summer}{%
\subsection{4 Restoring Lip Balms for the End of
Summer}\label{4-restoring-lip-balms-for-the-end-of-summer}}

Image

Clockwise from left: Supergoop's Play Lip Balm, \$10,
\href{https://supergoop.com/products/fusion-lip-balm-with-acai?variant=31342124204130\&gclsrc=aw.ds\&\&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIjcGTs6mY6wIVFsDICh2eZw-QEAQYASABEgKAA_D_BwE\&gclsrc=aw.ds}{supergoop.com};
Victoria Beckham Beauty's Bitten Lip Tint in Chérie, \$36,
\href{https://www.victoriabeckhambeauty.com/products/bitten-lip-tint/?gallery=0\&variant=bisou}{victoriabeckhambeauty.com};
Neova SmartSkincare' Cu3 Lip Repair with Copper Peptide Complex, \$26,
\href{https://www.neova.com/collections/eye-neck-lip/products/cu3-lip-repair-new}{neova.com;}
Iris \& Romeo Power Peptide Lip Balm in Berry, \$26,
\href{https://www.irisandromeo.com/products/power-peptide-lip-balm}{irisandromeo.com}.Credit...Courtesy
of the brands

By Caitie Kelly

Though now often hidden under masks, lips still need special attention
--- especially in the summer, when sun and saltwater take a toll. A good
place to start is with a versatile moisturizing balm like Supergoop's
\href{https://supergoop.com/products/fusion-lip-balm-with-acai?variant=31342124204130\&gclsrc=aw.ds\&\&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIzazege6Y6wIVBI7ICh1xSwVxEAQYASABEgJdOfD_BwE\&gclsrc=aw.ds}{Play
Lip Balm}, which has SPF 30 and comes in a clear formula ideal for
layering over lip shades. Victoria Beckham Beauty's
\href{https://www.victoriabeckhambeauty.com/products/bitten-lip-tint/?gallery=0\&variant=bisou}{Bitten
Lip Tint} has a light but supple gel formula containing squalane and
sodium hyaluronate, which sinks in (meaning no transfer onto **** masks)
for a rosy flush. An intense hydrating **** wash of color can be found
in the San Francisco Bay Area-based brand Iris \& Romeo's
\href{https://www.irisandromeo.com/products/power-peptide-lip-balm}{Power
Peptide Lip Balm}. Rich in biomimetic peptides that stimulate collagen
production, the balm also **** gives lips a more voluminous appearance.
For lips that may already be burned or severely dried from the elements,
Neova SmartSkincare, a brand dedicated to healing and preventing
photoaged skin, developed
\href{https://www.neova.com/collections/eye-neck-lip/products/cu3-lip-repair-new}{Cu3
Lip Repair}, to be used post-procedure or sun exposure. A thick layer
worn at night seals in moisture and will leave overexposed lips looking
remarkably better by morning.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{shop-this}{%
\subsubsection{Shop This}\label{shop-this}}

\hypertarget{fine-jewelry-charms-inspired-by-finger-foods}{%
\subsection{Fine Jewelry Charms Inspired by Finger
Foods}\label{fine-jewelry-charms-inspired-by-finger-foods}}

Image

Left: Mociun's charms in a room inspired by Ricardo Bofill's Cement
Factory, with handmade micro-size décor, including a porcelain cat by
the ceramist Eleonor Boström and a wooden bar cart made by Tammer Hijazi
of Bower Studios. Right: charms include a yellow gold clam casino, rose
gold shrimps, green gold avocado, green gold snap peas, yellow gold
carrots with pavé set orange sapphires and green gold asparagus with
green diamonds.Credit...Left: Nicholas Calcott. Right: Mociun

By Thessaly La Force

The Williamsburg-based fine jeweler Caitlin Mociun has built a loyal
customer base for her Bauhaus-inspired designs with Victorian touches
(think turquoise, diamonds and yellow gold for an engagement ring, and
antique glass intaglio seals for a necklace) made entirely with
ethically sourced or vintage gemstones. Not too long ago, Mociun began
creating limited-edition charms made to resemble miniature versions of
her favorite foods. Previous iterations included New York street food
(on offer were diamond doughnuts, golden hot dogs and slices of pizza)
and pool party fare (gold fried chicken and pearl-and-diamond encrusted
shucked oysters). The latest menu options in what Mociun playfully calls
her Fine Foods Collection are all crudités and finger foods: dainty
diamond-coated carrots and radishes, avocados with tiger's-eye as the
pit (the stone fruit consists of two charms, so you can gift one half to
a friend or loved one), as well as olives made from olivine, grapes made
from grape garnet and diamond-studded pink shrimps (in rose gold,
obviously, to approximate the look of the cooked shellfish). Each charm
(only 82 were made in total) comes with a slender book of matching
cocktails designed by the photographer and mixologist Vivian Cromwell.
``I wanted the charms to be really pretty, to be a proper nod to the
food they're referencing,'' said Mociun, who added that she is always
hoping to delight **** women who are buying jewelry for themselves.
\href{https://mociun.com/collections/fine-foods-small-bites}{\emph{mociun.com}}\emph{.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{from-ts-instagram}{%
\subsubsection{From T's Instagram}\label{from-ts-instagram}}

\hypertarget{tprocess-pierre-davis}{%
\subsection{\#TProcess: Pierre Davis}\label{tprocess-pierre-davis}}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
