Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}U.K. Officials' New Trump
Dilemma: What if He Loses?

\url{https://nyti.ms/30dhuza}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{uk-officials-new-trump-dilemma-what-if-he-loses}{%
\section{U.K. Officials' New Trump Dilemma: What if He
Loses?}\label{uk-officials-new-trump-dilemma-what-if-he-loses}}

If Joe Biden wins the November election, Britain would face a president
who opposed Brexit, would look out for Ireland, and may have little
interest in a trade deal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/world/29uk-biden/merlin_173928039_5eac6288-3388-4e68-bd50-e3072c924354-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-landler}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/22/reader-center/author-mark-landler/author-mark-landler-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mark-landler}{Mark Landler}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON --- Queen Elizabeth II threw him an extravagant state banquet at
Buckingham Palace. Former Prime Minister Theresa May welcomed him to
Blenheim Palace, the family seat of his hero, Winston Churchill. Her
successor, Boris Johnson, refused to join a global chorus of criticism
after he ordered troops to break up a Black Lives Matter protest outside
the White House.

Few countries have worked harder than Britain to please President Trump.
But now, with Mr. Trump trailing in the polls to former Vice President
Joseph R. Biden Jr., British officials are waking up to an unsettling
prospect: The president they tried so hard to accommodate may be out of
power next year.

In Paris and Berlin, a Trump defeat would be welcomed as an unalloyed
relief, removing a leader who has sundered alliances, threatened a trade
war, and tried to dismantle the European project. But in London, where
Mr. Johnson's government just left the European Union, it is more
complicated.

At a moment of British isolation, Mr. Trump's full-throated endorsement
of Brexit has made the United States a safe harbor. His promise of a
lucrative trade deal gave Mr. Johnson a selling point with his voters.
His populist politics were in sync with the bare-knuckle tactics of the
Brexiteers.

If Mr. Biden wins in November, Britain would face a president who
opposed Brexit, would look out for the interests of Ireland in a
post-Brexit Europe, and would have little motive to prioritize an
Anglo-American trade deal. His former boss, President Barack Obama, once
warned Britons that if they left the European Union, they would put
themselves at the ``back of the queue'' in any trade talks with the
United States.

``It will not be lost on Biden that the last two British prime ministers
went out of their way to be nice to and about Trump,'' said Peter
Westmacott, a former British ambassador to the United States. ``He is
instinctively comfortable with Brits, but London will have to work on
the relationship.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/world/29uk-biden2/29biden-uk2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

As Mr. Trump's polling numbers have eroded, pro-government papers have
begun to make the case that a President Biden would actually be better
for Britain than President Trump. Unlike Mr. Trump, he is a believer in
alliances. He would not subject Mr. Johnson to rude lectures about the
need for Britain to take a harder line against China. He would not be
toxic with much of the British public.

In a recent column in The Sunday Times, a well-connected political
journalist, Tim Shipman, quoted an unnamed government minister saying
that a Trump defeat ``would make things much easier.''

That sounds like a government hedging its bets. Mr. Johnson has been
careful to say nothing about the American election but he has already
tried to keep Mr. Trump at arm's length even as he avoids offending him.
Mr. Trump, by contrast, called into a London radio show in the heat of
the British election to praise Mr. Johnson and run down his opponent.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Britain's uneasiness is compounded by the strangeness of this election.
The Biden campaign has all but banned contact with foreign governments
to avoid the questions that dogged the Trump campaign in 2016 about its
ties to Russia. The pandemic has deprived Britain of its long practice
of embedding a diplomat in the challenger's campaign because there is
little in-person campaigning.

Jonathan Powell, who as a young British diplomat rode on the bus during
Bill Clinton's 1992 campaign, said the connections he made were valuable
in smoothing over bitterness Mr. Clinton's aides felt toward Britain's
Conservative government after it tried to dig up incriminating details
about Mr. Clinton's years at Oxford to help George H.W. Bush's campaign.
Mr. Powell later introduced Mr. Clinton to Tony Blair, who went on to
become prime minister and a friendlier counterpart.

Riding the bus is less important this time, he said, given that Mr.
Biden is already so well-known to British officials. But the lack of a
personal connection may foretell a relationship that is destined to
become more distant.

The risk for Britain, several experts said, is not a sudden rupture but
a gradual slide into irrelevance. Mr. Biden's emphasis, they said, would
be on mending fences with Berlin and Paris, not celebrating a ``special
relationship'' with London that got plenty of attention from his
predecessor.

Image

Experts suggest that Mr. Biden would focus more on repairing the U.S.
relationship with Germany and France, instead of focusing on
Britain.Credit...Maja Hitij/Getty Images

On a visit to London in October 2018, Mr. Biden, not yet a candidate,
cast his opposition to Brexit in geopolitical terms, saying it would
make Britain less valuable to the United States as a lever to influence
the European Union.

``Had I been a member of Parliament, had I been a British citizen, I
would have voted against leaving,'' Mr. Biden said at Chatham House, the
London research institution. ``U.S. interests,'' he added, ``are
diminished with Great Britain not an integral part of Europe.''

Charles A. Kupchan, a professor at Georgetown University who worked on
European affairs in the Obama White House and is advising Mr. Biden's
campaign, said, ``The question is not, `Will there be a special
relationship?' There will be. The question is, `Will the special
relationship matter?'''

British officials recognize the challenge. They cite human rights and
Russia as areas where Britain could carve out a robust role alongside
the United States. Mr. Johnson's recent reversal barring the Chinese
telecommunications giant Huawei from access to its 5G network brings
Britain in line with a more hawkish American policy toward China. That
is likely to extend beyond Mr. Trump's presidency.

He may need to patch up other lingering issues. In 2016, when Mr.
Johnson was mayor of London, he recounted in a newspaper column that Mr.
Obama replaced a bust of Churchill in the Oval Office with one of Martin
Luther King Jr., and attributed the switch to ``the part-Kenyan
president's ancestral dislike of the British Empire.''

Some say fears of tension between Mr. Johnson and Mr. Biden are
overblown.

``It's part of the job for American presidents to get along with prime
ministers,'' said Tom Tugendhat, a Conservative member of Parliament who
is chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and has spoken with
advisers to Mr. Biden.

Still, there are potential land mines, not least Northern Ireland. A
devoted Irish-American, Mr. Biden will fiercely defend Ireland's
interests, as will his allies in the Democratic Party's Irish lobby on
Capitol Hill. In speeches, Mr. Biden's go-to literary reference is from
``Easter 1916,'' a poem by the Irish poet William Butler Yeats about the
Irish uprising against British rule.

Image

``Had I been a member of Parliament, had I been a British citizen, I
would have voted against leaving'' the European Union, Mr. Biden said at
an event at Chatham House in London in 2018.Credit...Alastair
Grant/Associated Press

British diplomats gamely point out that Mr. Biden has English roots,
too. He has talked of a great-great-great grandfather who was a captain
in the British East India Trading Company. But they say that as far as
Brexit goes, his primary concern is likely to be the preservation of the
Good Friday Agreement, the Clinton-era accord that ended decades of
sectarian strife in Northern Ireland.

``Biden is very keen on his Irish Catholic roots, though he has British
ones too,'' Mr. Westmacott said. ``If the U.K. ends up with a no deal or
other Brexit outcome which is bad news for Ireland, he will not be
impressed.''

So far, Mr. Johnson has avoided that problem by striking a withdrawal
agreement with the European Union that leaves an open border on the
island of Ireland. But Ireland could still suffer economic damage if
Britain fails to negotiate permanent trading arrangements with Brussels.

Trade is another area where Mr. Biden could prove frustrating. Mr.
Trump's promise of a blockbuster deal with Britain had already begun to
fade, with his trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, saying last
month it was unlikely before the election. Were Mr. Biden to win,
experts said, he would face a Democratic Party deeply skeptical of a
deal, at a time when free trade is in retreat worldwide.

British officials recently floated the idea of both countries joining
the successor agreement to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Mr.
Trump pulled out of in 2017, as a way to sidestep the thorny issues in a
direct negotiation.

But even if Mr. Biden were to rejoin T.P.P. --- a big if --- analysts
noted that its provisions on food sanitation were largely written by the
United States and would raise the same objections that have stymied
trans-Atlantic talks.

``In other words,'' said Sam Lowe, a trade expert at the Center for
European Reform, ``the chlorine chicken debate is here to stay.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
