Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/business/economy}{Economy}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/business/economy}{Economy}\textbar{}Unemployment Claims
Send Another Worrisome Note

\url{https://nyti.ms/32imunt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b0-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b1-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b2-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b3-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b4-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=6e5788b5-f4c0-11ea-8126-759f148636fd\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{unemployment-claims-send-another-worrisome-note}{%
\section{Unemployment Claims Send Another Worrisome
Note}\label{unemployment-claims-send-another-worrisome-note}}

Filings for benefits reflect continued layoffs and a sluggish recovery.
``The numbers are going in the wrong direction,'' one economist said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/business/10virus-jobless1/merlin_176318397_c6f52c5a-e97e-4066-a259-e16a0af51aee-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nelson-d-schwartz}{Nelson
D. Schwartz} and
\href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Despite some signs of economic revival, the outlook for American workers
remains treacherous, with layoffs continuing to claim hundreds of
thousands of jobs a week.

The weekly figures on unemployment claims from the Labor Department on
Thursday showed no relief, reflecting what Michael Gapen, chief U.S.
economist at Barclays, said was ``a transition to a slower pace of
recovery, and one that will be more uneven.''

\href{https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OPA/newsreleases/ui-claims/20201709.pdf}{The
department reported} that more than 857,000 workers filed new claims for
state unemployment insurance last week, before seasonal adjustments, a
slight increase from the previous week. On a seasonally adjusted basis,
the total was 884,000, unchanged from the revised figure for the
previous week.

In addition, about 839,000 new claims were tallied under a federal
program called Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, which provides
assistance to freelancers, part-time workers and others who do not
ordinarily qualify for state benefits. That figure, which is not
seasonally adjusted, was up from 748,000 the previous week.

``It's a gut punch to see these numbers every Thursday with no
improvement,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the accounting firm
Grant Thornton in Chicago. ``The numbers are going in the wrong
direction.''

Although weekly unemployment insurance filings are down from the peak of
more than 6.5 million in early spring, they remain frustratingly high.
Before the pandemic, new weekly claims were typically a little over
200,000. Many economists had expected them to fall much further by now.

\hypertarget{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}{%
\subsubsection{Initial weekly unemployment claims, both regular claims
and those under the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
program}\label{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}}

By Ella Koeze·Pandemic Unemployment Assistance extends eligibility to
some workers who would not otherwise be able to apply for unemployment
benefits, such as part-time and self-employed workers. Neither regular
claims nor P.U.A. claims are seasonally adjusted.·Source: Labor
Department

There have been some hopeful signs.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/business/economy/jobs-report.html}{The
unemployment rate in August fell} to 8.4 percent.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/nyregion/indoor-dining-coronavirus.html}{Many
states are moving forward} with reopening businesses. Home sales are
strong.

A wild card is the congressional standoff over another coronavirus
relief package. House Democrats have passed a \$3 trillion bill that
would restore a \$600 weekly unemployment benefit supplement that
expired in July. A much smaller Republican package reviving the
supplement at \$300 a week
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html\#link-3c53e6c9}{failed
to advance} in a Senate vote on Thursday.

President Trump ordered a stopgap
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/stimulus-unemployment-payment-benefit.html}{\$300-a-week
replacement} last month through the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
but it has been slow to get off the ground and has funds for only a few
weeks.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the
Economy}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak and the Economy}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak-and-the-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{10h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-nyse-may-move-its-data-center-out-of-new-jersey-in-response-to-a-proposed-tax}{The
N.Y.S.E. may move its data center out of New Jersey in response to a
proposed tax.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{12h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#the-federal-budget-deficit-hit-3-trillion-as-of-august}{The
federal budget deficit hit \$3 trillion as of August.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{13h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#warner-bros-pushes-the-release-of-wonder-woman-1984-to-christmas}{Warner
Bros. pushes the release of `Wonder Woman 1984' to Christmas.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Eighteen states have begun making the payments, said Michele Evermore,
senior researcher and policy analyst at the National Employment Law
Project. ``It would have been so much easier and faster if Congress
would have passed an extension,'' she said.

At the same time, the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program is
drawing millions of recipients --- and allegations that some are abusing
it.

A California official said the state suspected that much of the recent
increase in claims under the program was a result of fraud, and was
investigating ``unscrupulous attacks'' that have taken advantage of
identity theft and other vulnerabilities in the system.

The program, created as part of pandemic relief efforts enacted in
March, is intended to help gig workers, part-timers, independent
contractors and the self-employed. In the week that ended Aug. 22, 14.6
million people were collecting benefits under the program, and nearly
half were in California, the Labor Department said.

A spokeswoman for the California Employment Development Department,
Loree Levy, said the state was ``aggressively fighting'' fraud in the
program. ``We do suspect that a big part of the unusual recent rise in
P.U.A. claims is linked to fraud,'' she said.

Ms. Levy said the state was suspending or closing claims that match
suspicious patterns and was working with local and federal authorities
to expose and prosecute offenders.

``Perpetrators are often using stolen identity information from national
and global data breaches, as well as exploiting expedited payment
efforts,'' she said.

In August, 21 current and former inmates of the main San Mateo County
jail in California were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/unemployment-fraud-jail-california.html}{charged
with fraud} after they successfully applied for benefits under the
program while in custody. The bogus claims yielded more than \$250,000
in payments.

Whatever the problems with fraud, the program provides a lifeline to
many individual workers with legitimate claims.

Pedro Night, a D.J. in the Washington area, saw his livelihood fade as
events and other gatherings were halted. ``By April, it hit me, and I
realized that we were definitely in this for the long haul,'' he said.

He applied for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, and in June he started
receiving \$350 each week in benefits after taxes, in addition to a
\$600 federal supplement.

Although the supplement ended in late July, the basic payments have
continued, giving him just enough for his share of the \$750 monthly
rent for an apartment in Rockville, Md., his \$400 car payment and his
\$120 car insurance bill.

Even as Congress debates extending supplemental aid to the unemployed,
some find themselves struggling to do without.

Robert Rooney was furloughed as an engineer at the Bellagio Hotel in Las
Vegas on March 15, and then permanently laid off on Aug. 31. After the
\$600 supplement ran out, Mr. Rooney was left with \$423 a week in
Nevada unemployment benefits after taxes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/business/10JPvirus-jobless1-print/10markets-brf-vegas2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Mr. Rooney's wife, Jennifer, is still working, but they believe they
will be unable to pay the \$1,200 rent for their two-bedroom house by
the end of the year. They are considering selling one of their cars and
have given up on buying a home, something they expected to do this fall.

They are using credit cards to pay for groceries, gas and the roughly
\$300 per month in medical costs for Mr. Rooney's mother, who has a lung
ailment. They are dipping into their small pot of savings for the
minimum payments on their credit card bills.

Ms. Rooney hung on to the entry-level job she got last year doing data
entry at a local nonprofit organization. Her wages, \$12 per hour, are
close to what she made 10 years ago, before earning her bachelor's
degree. She hoped to work her way up as she changed industries from her
prior work in health care. But her paychecks alone are too scanty to
keep the family afloat.

The couple, both 41, have had fertility challenges, and before the
pandemic, they were looking into fertility treatments or adoption. Now,
without Mr. Rooney's job and with his company health insurance running
out at the end of the month, they can't afford either possibility.

``It's really painful to think about what might have been,'' Mr. Rooney
said. ``The pandemic has taken all of that away.''

The Rooneys are planning to move to Texas by November to take advantage
of lower housing costs and in hopes that he will have more luck finding
work there.

Joe Braxton has been similarly devastated by the disappearance of the
\$600-per-week supplemental benefit.

Image

Joe Braxton was able to work out a break on his rent, but he~has not
been able to pay for his car loan or auto insurance.Credit...Ting Shen
for The New York Times

For 10 years, Mr. Braxton helped brands market themselves at events like
South by Southwest and Comic-Con. But after events across the country
were canceled because of the pandemic, Mr. Braxton found himself out of
work.

Thanks to a job early in the year at an auto show, he qualified for
unemployment benefits, including the \$600 federal supplement. That
allowed him to keep paying the \$1,200 in rent for his one-bedroom
apartment in Bladensburg, Md.

When the supplement ended, he was left with \$100 a week in state
benefits. His landlord allowed him to pay less than the full rent each
month until he could find work.

But Mr. Braxton, 40, has not been able to pay for his car loan or auto
insurance --- which total \$860 a month --- and he owes \$2,700. Now he
waits for his car to be repossessed.

``Every day I wake up and I'm like, did they come pick it up yet?'' Mr.
Braxton said. ``I feel like I'm being punished by the pandemic, and it's
not even my fault.''

Some are more fortunate. Pamela Álvarez, 28, was a librarian in Chicago
until the pandemic struck. She was furloughed on May 1, and then laid
off permanently on July 1. Her husband continued to work, but his
overtime shifts were cut back, and when she lost the \$600 unemployment
supplement, it was hard for them to make their \$1,200 monthly rent
payment.

Last week, Ms. Álvarez was offered a one-year position with a nonprofit
organization that helps low-income people get their furnaces repaired
and replaced. She accepted, relieved to have a job even though it paid
\$16 an hour, compared with her previous \$23.

``I still cannot believe that I got a job after applying for over 50
positions,'' she said. ``It feels like a bit of a dream, and a nightmare
at the same time, because now I have to work outside the home during the
pandemic and I am afraid of getting sick.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
