Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/americas}{Americas}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/americas}{Americas}\textbar{}Threat of Military
Action Rattles Brazil as Virus Deaths Surge

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ARmqQj}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22258f50-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22258f51-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22258f52-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=22258f53-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2225b660-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=2225b661-f4bb-11ea-ad23-071b6226df98\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{threat-of-military-action-rattles-brazil-as-virus-deaths-surge}{%
\section{Threat of Military Action Rattles Brazil as Virus Deaths
Surge}\label{threat-of-military-action-rattles-brazil-as-virus-deaths-surge}}

As Brazil reels from its worst crisis in decades, President Bolsonaro
and his allies are using the prospect of military intervention to
protect his grip on power.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/08/world/americas/09brazil-top/09brazil-top-articleLarge-v3.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/simon-romero}{Simon
Romero}, Letícia Casado and Manuela Andreoni

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published June 10, 2020Updated June 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/es/2020/06/11/espanol/america-latina/bolsonaro-golpe-coronavirus.html}{Leer
en español}

\emph{{[}Read more on}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{\emph{Brazil's
Coronavirus cases and deaths}}\emph{.{]}}

The threats are swirling around the president:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Deaths
from the virus in Brazil} each day are now the highest in the world.
Investors are fleeing the country. The president, his sons and his
allies are under investigation. His election could even be overturned.

The crisis has grown so intense that some of the most powerful military
figures in Brazil are warning of instability --- sending shudders that
they could take over and dismantle Latin America's largest democracy.

But far from denouncing the idea, President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/07/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-coronavirus.html}{Jair
Bolsonaro}'s inner circle seems to be clamoring for the military to step
into the fray. In fact, one of the president's sons, a congressman who
has praised the country's former military dictatorship, said a similar
institutional break was inevitable.

``It's no longer an opinion about if, but when this will happen,'' the
president's son, Eduardo Bolsonaro, recently told a prominent Brazilian
blogger, warning of what he called a looming ``rupture'' in Brazil's
democratic system.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/09/world/xxbrazil1/merlin_173361519_01ab39c5-7600-4c79-85ee-4b75c1b42c7b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The standoff traces an ominous arc for Brazil, a country that shook off
military rule in the 1980s and built a thriving democracy in its wake.
Within two decades, Brazil had come to represent the energy and promise
of the developing world, with a booming economy and the right to host
the World Cup and the Olympics.

Since then, its economy has faltered, corruption scandals have toppled
or ensnared many of its leaders and an impeachment battle ousted its
powerful leftist government.

Mr. Bolsonaro, a former Army captain, stepped into this tumult,
celebrating the country's military past and promising to restore order.
But he has come under blistering criticism for downplaying the virus,
sabotaging isolation measures and cavalierly presiding over one of the
highest death tolls in the world, saying,
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/world/middleeast/coronavirus-egypt-america-africa-asia.html}{We
are sorry for all the dead, but that's everyone's destiny}.''

He, his family and his supporters are also being pursued on allegations
like abuse of power, corruption and illegally spreading misinformation.
Yet nearly half of his cabinet is made up of military figures, and now,
critics contend, he is relying on the threat of military intervention to
ward off challenges to his presidency.

A retired general in Mr. Bolsonaro's cabinet, Augusto Heleno, the
national security adviser, shook the nation in May when he warned of
``unpredictable consequences for national stability'' after the Supreme
Court let an inquiry into Mr. Bolsonaro's supporters move forward.

Image

Augusto Heleno, one of the generals in Mr. Bolsonaro's cabinet, warned
of ``unpredictable consequences for national stability'' as an
investigation into Mr. Bolsonaro moved forward.Credit...Evaristo
Sa/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

Another general, the defense minister, swiftly endorsed the provocation,
while Mr. Bolsonaro lashed out as well, suggesting that the police
ignore the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-supreme-court.html}{``absurd
orders''} of the court.

``This is destabilizing the country, right during a pandemic,'' said
Sergio Moro, the former justice minister who broke with Mr. Bolsonaro in
April, said of the threats of military intervention. Though he considers
military action unlikely, he added: ``It is reprehensible. The country
does not need to be living with this type of threat.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T05:29:13.829Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Political leaders and analysts agree that military intervention seems
unlikely. Even so, the possibility is hanging over the nation's
democratic institutions, which are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/01/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-coronavirus-crisis.html}{scrutinizing
Mr. Bolsonaro and his family on multiple fronts}.

Two of the president's sons are under investigation for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-supreme-court.html}{the
kind of disinformation and defamation campaigns} that helped get their
father elected in 2018, and late last month the federal police raided
several properties tied to influential allies of Mr. Bolsonaro. The
Superior Electoral Court, which oversees elections, has the authority to
use evidence from the inquiry to annul the election and remove Mr.
Bolsonaro from office.

Two of his sons are also under investigation for corruption, and the
Supreme Court recently authorized an inquiry into allegations that Mr.
Bolsonaro tried to replace the federal police chief
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/world/americas/brazil-bolsonaro-moro.html}{in
order to protect his family and friends}.

Even the president's handling of the pandemic is under legal threat: On
Monday, a Supreme Court justice ordered the government to stop
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-statistics.html}{suppressing
data on Brazil's surging death toll}.

The threats of military intervention have incited a broad backlash, even
from some senior members of the armed forces. And General Heleno, the
national security adviser, later said that he did not support a coup,
contending he was misunderstood.

Image

Brazil shook off military rule in the 1980s and built a thriving
democracy in the decades that followed.Credit...Ueslei Marcelino/Reuters

Still, military and civilian officials in Mr. Bolsonaro's own
administration --- as well as allies of the president in Congress,
evangelical megachurches and military associations --- say the
maneuvering is aimed at heading off any attempts by Brazil's legislative
and judicial institutions to oust the president.

Silas Malafaia, a right-wing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/11/26/world/americas/silas-malafaia-tv-evangelist-rises-in-brazils-culture-wars.html}{televangelist}
close to Mr. Bolsonaro, insisted that the president had not told him of
any plan for military intervention. Still, he argued that the armed
forces had the right to prevent courts from overstepping or even ousting
the president.

``That's not a coup,'' Mr. Malafaia said. ``It's instilling order where
there is disorder.''

The pro-Bolsonaro officials issuing such threats are generally not
referring to the way coups have often been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/10/21/world/americas/an-apology-for-a-guatemalan-coup-57-years-later.html}{carried
out} in Latin America, with the armed forces toppling a civilian leader
to install one of their own.

Instead, they seem to be urging something similar to what happened in
Peru in 1992, when Alberto Fujimori, the right-wing leader, used the
armed forces to dissolve Congress, reorganize the judiciary and hunt
down political opponents.

Mr. Bolsonaro, who still draws support from about 30 percent of
Brazilians, already casts himself as the embodiment of Brazilian
military culture, and portrays the armed forces as ethical and efficient
managers.

Image

Gen. Emilio Garrastazu Medici, left, after being proclaimed Brazil's new
president by military order in 1969.Credit...Associated Press

Brazil's armed forces already exercise exceptional influence in his
government. Military figures, including retired four-star generals,
account for 10 of 22 ministers in the cabinet. The government has
\href{https://www.poder360.com.br/analise/os-2-897-militares-no-governo-e-a-falta-de-quadros-entre-os-aliados/}{named}
nearly 2,900 other active-duty members of the military to administration
posts.

The clout of Brazil's armed forces was on display when congressional
leaders mostly exempted them from a 2019 pensions overhaul, allowing
members of the military to avoid the deeper benefits cuts endured by
other parts of society.

Mr. Bolsonaro's pandemic response showcased the military's rising
profile in his government --- as well the risks for leaders of the armed
forces when Brazilians start ascribing blame as things go badly awry.

Building on Brazil's public health successes in fighting previous
epidemics, the Health Ministry pushed early on in the crisis for social
distancing measures to slow the virus's spread.

Even Mr. Bolsonaro seemed on board with the approach, dissuading
followers from attending street rallies. Then he abruptly changed his
stance, fist-bumping supporters outside his palace.

Image

Supporters of Mr. Bolsonaro took to the street to show their support as
he faced investigations.Credit...Victor Moriyama for The New York Times

Mr. Bolsonaro also shifted leadership of the pandemic response to
another general, Walter Souza Braga Netto, his chief of staff.

Sidelined and balking at expanding the use of hydroxychloroquine, a
malaria drug promoted by Mr. Bolsonaro that has not been proven
effective against the virus, the health minister was replaced. His
successor lasted only a few weeks until he resigned, replaced by an army
general, Eduardo Pazuello.

One former official in the health ministry said the abrupt changes
created a sense of chaos within the agency, resulting in weeks of
dysfunction and paralysis at the most crucial time --- when the country
should have been fighting the uncontrolled spread of the virus.

Separately, Luiz Henrique Mandetta, the health minister at the start of
the pandemic, said that Mr. Bolsonaro prized economic stability over
health priorities, preferring a military figure at the ministry's helm.

``He needed someone like a general or a colonel who saw the ministry as
a steppingstone, a way to get a promotion for bravery,'' Mr. Mandetta
said.

Brazil now has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{more
than 700,000} confirmed coronavirus cases,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{second}
only to the United States. At least 37,000 people have died from the
virus in Brazil as of Tuesday, with the death count often climbing by
more than 1,000 a day.

The upheaval in Brazil is leading investors to rush for the exits.
Capital flight is
\href{https://economia.uol.com.br/colunas/jose-paulo-kupfer/2020/05/27/fuga-de-capitais-se-acentua-e-alerta-para-falta-de-confianca-no-brasil.htm}{reaching}
levels unseen since the 1990s. The World Bank expects the economy to
contract 8 percent this year. Car production, a once-thriving pillar of
the economy, has
\href{https://www.terra.com.br/parceiros/guia-do-carro/industria-automobilistica-tem-o-pior-resultado-desde-1957,2607f811c62d5d3abc66af24c1cb08712gk0gjq1.html}{plummeted}
to its lowest level since the 1950s.

Image

Protests against Mr. Bolsonaro have spread despite the
quarantine.Credit...Victor Moriyama for The New York Times

Carlos Fico, a historian at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro who
studies the Brazilian military, said the growing power of the armed
forces carried the risk of revealing their incompetence in crucial
areas.

``They think that bombastic declarations will make things happen as in
the military realm, where an order is given and those of lower rank
obey,'' Mr. Fico said.

But with the military now guiding the pandemic response, Mr. Fico added,
``They're running the risk of being blamed by society for what happens
next.''

Top allies of Mr. Bolsonaro insist that the armed forces have no plans
for a coup. ``Not one four-star general is in favor of military
intervention,'' said Sostenes Cavalcante, a right-wing congressman.

But in the same breath, Mr. Cavalcante argued that something must be
done to curb the power of the Supreme Court. He contended that the talk
of a coup by Mr. Bolsonaro's son was merely a way of pressuring the
judiciary.

``You could interpret that as the Supreme Court having overstepped its
authority,'' Mr. Cavalcante said.

At the same time, some officials within Mr. Bolsonaro's administration
are actively examining scenarios in which the military might intervene.
One military official in the government who was not authorized to speak
publicly said an intervention remained off the radar for now, but that
certain moves by the judiciary, such as ordering a search of Mr.
Bolsonaro's palace as part of an investigation, could change that.

Image

Brazilian officers at a military ceremony to mark the anniversary of the
dictatorship that began on March 31, 1964.Credit...Ueslei
Marcelino/Reuters

Similarly, the official added, any potential annulment of the 2018
election by a judge would also be considered unacceptable, because it
would remove not only Mr. Bolsonaro, but also his running mate and vice
president, Hamilton Mourão, a retired general.

Mr. Mourão has repeatedly asserted that no kind of military takeover is
under consideration. But even the debate over military intervention is
raising concern about the resilience of Brazil's democratic institutions
and a return to chronic political instability, with constant military
meddling.

Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former civilian president who was exiled
during the military dictatorship, said he didn't think a coup was
imminent. But he worried that Mr. Bolsonaro's intimidation tactics could
intensify.

``How do democracies die? You don't need a military coup,'' Mr. Cardoso,
88, who has already urged Mr. Bolsonaro to resign,
\href{https://brasil.elpais.com/brasil/2020-05-31/fhc-quem-vai-ser-responsabilizado-pelos-erros-do-governo-queiram-ou-nao-serao-os-militares.html}{told}
reporters. ``The president himself can seek extraordinary powers, and he
can take them.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
