<div id="js-global-nav" class="pz-nav">

<div id="js-nav-burger" class="pz-nav__hamburger-helper pz-nav__hamburger pz-nav__hamburger-squeeze">

<span class="pz-nav__hamburger-box"><span class="pz-nav__hamburger-inner"></span></span>

</div>

<div id="js-mobile-toolbar" class="pz-nav__toolbar">

</div>

<div class="pz-nav__actions pz-flex-row">

[Subscribe](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/games?campaignId=4QHQ8)[Log
In](https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2Fpuzzles%2Fsubmissions%2Fcrossword&response_type=cookie&client_id=games&application=crosswords&asset=navigation-bar)

</div>

</div>

<div id="js-nav-drawer" class="pz-nav-drawer">

#### New York Times Games

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group daily-crossword">

[The Crossword](/crosswords/game/daily)[Statistics](/puzzles/stats)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group mini-crossword">

[The Mini](/crosswords/game/mini)[Leaderboards](/puzzles/leaderboards)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group spelling-bee">

[Spelling Bee](/puzzles/spelling-bee)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group tiles">

[Tiles](/puzzles/tiles)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group letter-boxed">

[Letter Boxed](/puzzles/letter-boxed)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group vertex">

[Vertex](/puzzles/vertex)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group hub">

[All Games](/crosswords)

</div>

-----

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group archive">

[Crossword Archives](/crosswords/archive)

</div>

-----

#### Other Games

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group sudoku">

[Sudoku](/puzzles/sudoku)

</div>

-----

#### Tips and Tricks

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__group tips-and-tricks">

[Wordplay, the Crossword
Column](https://nytimes.com/column/wordplay)[How to Solve The
Crossword](https://nytimes.com/guides/crosswords/how-to-solve-a-crossword-puzzle)

</div>

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__account">

<div class="pz-nav-drawer__account-actions">

[Subscribe](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/games?campaignId=4QHQ8)[Log
In](https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nytimes.com%2Fpuzzles%2Fsubmissions%2Fcrossword&response_type=cookie&client_id=games&application=crosswords&asset=navigation-bar)

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="pz-content">

<div class="post">

## Submissions

# Submit Your Crossword Puzzles to The New York Times

<div class="post-link__wrapper">

### The New York Times looks for intelligent, literate, entertaining and well-crafted crosswords that appeal to the broad range of Times solvers.

<div id="puzzle-submission-scroll-button">

</div>

</div>

-----

#### Construction Guidelines

###### Themes

Themes should be fresh, interesting, narrowly defined and consistently
applied throughout the puzzle. If the theme includes a particular kind
of pun, for example, then all the puns should be of that kind. Themes
and theme entries should be accessible to everyone. Themeless daily
puzzles using wide-open patterns are also welcome, provided the word
count is below 72.

###### Fill

Constructors should emphasize lively words, names and fresh phrases. We
especially encourage the use of phrases from everyday writing and
speech, whether or not they are in the dictionary. For variety, try some
of the lesser-used letters of the alphabet — J, Q, X, Z, K, W, etc.
Brand names are acceptable if they’re well known nationally and you use
them in moderation.

Do not use partial phrases longer than five letters (ONE TO A, A STITCH
IN, etc.), uninteresting obscurity (a Bulgarian village, a water bug
genus, etc.) or uncommon abbreviations. Foreign words are allowed
provided most Americans would be familiar with them (LAIT, OJO, NEIN).
Keep crosswordese to a minimum — that is, answers that appear far more
in crosswords than in real life (ERNE, ASTA, ARETE, YSER, etc.)
Difficult words are fine — especially for the harder daily puzzles that
run late in the week — if the words are interesting bits of knowledge or
useful additions to the vocabulary. However, never let two obscure words
or names cross.

###### Constructor Tools and Tips

There are many options for making a crossword puzzle, including the
good, old-fashioned graph-paper-and-pencil method, though several
software programs exist as well. For a full list of these programs, as
well as tips from New York Times constructors and editors on the puzzle
making process, see our series on [How to Make a Crossword
Puzzle.](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/14/crosswords/how-to-make-a-crossword-puzzle-the-series.html)

##### Technical Specs

###### Basic Rules

While we encourage new and creative crossword themes, there are a few
hard rules when it comes to constructing New York Times crosswords.
These include:

  - Crosswords must have black square symmetry, which typically comes in
    the form of 180-degree rotational symmetry;
  - Crosswords must have all-over interlock;
  - Crosswords must not have unchecked squares  (i.e., all letters must
    be found in both Across and Down answers);
  - All answers must be at least 3 letters long;
  - Black squares should be used in moderation.

###### Maximum Word Count

78 words for a 15×15 (72 for a themeless); 140 for a 21×21. Maximums may
be exceeded slightly at the editor’s discretion, if the theme warrants.

###### Rights

Times puzzles must never have been published anywhere before, either in
print or electronically. The Times buys all rights, including first
rights.

###### Formatting

Use regular typing paper (8 1/2″ × 11″). Type the clues double-spaced on
the left (no periods after the numbers), answer words in a corresponding
column on the far right. Down clues need not begin on a new page.
Include a filled-in answer grid with numbers. Put your name, address and
email address on the grid page.

An example is shown below, which you can [download as a
pdf.](https://static01.nyt.com/packages/other/crossword/puzzle-media/shared/Sample-Submission-2020.pdf)

![Example
Submission](https://www.nytimes.com/games-assets/example-submission-2020.png)

###### Payment

Payment varies based on the day of the week and number of puzzles you’ve
had published with The New York Times.

| Puzzles           | Size    | Published 1 – 2 | Published 3+ |
| :---------------- | :------ | :-------------- | :----------- |
| Monday – Saturday | 15 × 15 | $500            | $750         |
| Sunday            | 21 × 21 | $1,500          | $2,250       |

-----

##### Submit Your Puzzle

<div id="puzzle-submission-form-root">

</div>

-----

###### Or Mail Your Puzzle To

Will Shortz, Crossword Editor  
The New York Times  
620 8th Ave.  
New York, NY 10018

</div>

</div>

<div class="pz-footer__wrapper">

<div class="section pz-footer__section pz-footer__about-us">

#### About New York Times Games

Times games have captivated solvers since the launch of the Crossword in
1942. Our experts create engaging word and visual games — in 2014 we
introduced the Mini Crossword, followed by Spelling Bee, Letter Boxed,
Tiles and Vertex. We’ll continue to make new games our players will be
passionate about.

[Subscribe
now](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription/games?campaignId=9W9LL) for
unlimited access.

</div>

<div class="section pz-footer__section pz-footer__section-link-col">

#### New York Times Games

  - [**The Crossword](/crosswords/game/daily)
  - [**The Mini Crossword](/crosswords/game/mini)
  - [**Spelling Bee](/puzzles/spelling-bee)
  - [**Tiles](/puzzles/tiles)
  - [**Letter Boxed](/puzzles/letter-boxed)
  - [**Vertex](/puzzles/vertex)
  - [All
    Games](/crosswords)

</div>

<div class="section pz-footer__section pz-footer__section-link-col">

#### Other Games

  - [Sudoku](/puzzles/sudoku)

#### Learn More

  - [FAQs](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014755667-New-York-Times-Crossword)
  - [Gift
    Subscriptions](https://nytimes.com/subscription/crosswords/gift)
  - [Contact Us](mailto:NYTCrossword@nytimes.com)

</div>

<div class="section pz-footer__section pz-footer__section-link-col">

#### Crosswords

  - [Crossword Archives](/crosswords/archive)
  - [Statistics](/puzzles/stats)
  - [Leaderboards](/puzzles/leaderboards)
  - [Download the App](/crosswords/apps)
  - [Submit a Crossword](/puzzles/submissions/crossword)

#### Community

  - [Wordplay,  
    the Crossword
Column](https://nytimes.com/column/wordplay)
  - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/NYTimesWordplay)

</div>

<div class="section pz-footer__section pz-footer__legal pz-footer__section-link-col">

  - [© 2020 The New York Times Company](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [NYTimes.com](https://nytimes.com)
  - [Sitemap](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com/)
  - [Privacy
    Policy](https://nytimes.com/subscription/privacy-policy#/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)

</div>

</div>

<div id="ratio-hook">

</div>

<div id="width-hook">

</div>
