Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{See How the World's Most Polluted Air Compares With Your
City's}\href{}{Skip to Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{see-how-the-worlds-most-polluted-air-compares-with-your-citys}{%
\section{See How the World's Most Polluted Air Compares With Your
City's}\label{see-how-the-worlds-most-polluted-air-compares-with-your-citys}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nadja-popovich}{Nadja
Popovich},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/karthik-patanjali}{Karthik
Patanjali},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/anjali-singhvi}{Anjali
Singhvi} and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jon-huang}{Jon
Huang}Dec. 2, 2019

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{216}
\end{itemize}

We visualized the damaging, tiny particles that wreak havoc on human
health. From the Bay Area to New Delhi, see how the world's worst
pollution compares with your local air.

\hypertarget{air-quality-based-on-particulate-pollution}{%
\subsubsection{Air quality based on particulate
pollution}\label{air-quality-based-on-particulate-pollution}}

The \textbf{floating particles} on this page **** depict microscopic
particulate pollution called PM2.5. The number of particles you see here
represents the upper limit for ``good'' air quality, as defined by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency: \textbf{12 micrograms per
cubic meter} over 24 hours.

We made our best guess for your location, or you can pick another.This
is pollution in \textbf{New York City} on the worst air quality day this
year. Particulate concentrations reached \textbf{41} \textbf{µg/m3}
during the highest hour, a level that would be considered ``unhealthy
for sensitive groups.''

Compare that to the air in California **** last year, when a thick
blanket of smoke from the Camp Fire descended across \textbf{the Bay
Area}. Particulate pollution hit \textbf{nearly 200 µg/m3}, **** well
within the ``very unhealthy'' range when people are advised to limit
outdoor activity.

But that spike pales in comparison with the recent air quality crisis in
northern India: On the most polluted day last month, fine particulate
levels in \textbf{New Delhi} reached \textbf{over 900 µg/m3}, blowing
past the E.P.A.'s definition of ``hazardous'' air (which maxes out at
500) and into extreme territory.

**

See Air Pollution in Your Space

Outdoor particulate pollution was responsible for an estimated
\href{https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(17)30505-6/fulltext}{4.2
million deaths worldwide} in 2015, with a majority concentrated in east
and south Asia. Millions more fell ill from breathing dirty air.

This fine pollution mainly comes from burning things: Coal in power
plants, gasoline in cars, chemicals in industrial processes, or woody
materials and whatever else ignites during wildfires. The particles are
too small for the eye to see --- each about
\href{https://www.epa.gov/pm-pollution/particulate-matter-pm-basics}{35}\href{https://www.epa.gov/pm-pollution/particulate-matter-pm-basics}{times
smaller}\href{https://www.epa.gov/pm-pollution/particulate-matter-pm-basics}{than}\href{https://www.epa.gov/pm-pollution/particulate-matter-pm-basics}{a
grain of fine beach sand} --- but in high concentrations they cast a
haze in the sky. And, when breathed in, they wreak havoc on human
health.

PM2.5 can evade our bodies' defenses, penetrating deep into the lungs
and even entering the bloodstream. It has been shown to exacerbate
asthma and other lung disorders, and increase the risk of heart attack
and stroke. This microscopic pollution, named because each particle is
smaller than 2.5 micrometers across, has also been linked to
developmental problems in children and cognitive impairment in the
elderly, as well as premature labor and low birth weights.

Under high levels of particulate pollution, ``you can't function, you
can't thrive,'' said Alexandra Karambelas, an environmental analyst and
research scientist affiliated with Columbia University. ``Having access
to clean air is kind of a basic human right.''

A Year of Fine Particulate Pollution

RUSSIA

CANADA

UNITED

STATES

CHINA

Atlantic

Ocean

Sahara

Desert

INDIA

Pacific

Ocean

Pacific

Ocean

BRAZIL

Less

More

AUSTRALIA

Indian

Ocean

RUSSIA

CANADA

UNITED

STATES

CHINA

Atlantic

Ocean

Sahara

Desert

INDIA

Pacific

Ocean

Pacific

Ocean

BRAZIL

Less

More

AUSTRALIA

Indian

Ocean

RUSSIA

CANADA

UNITED

STATES

CHINA

Atlantic

Ocean

Sahara

Desert

INDIA

Pacific

Ocean

Pacific

Ocean

BRAZIL

More

Less

AUSTRALIA

Indian

Ocean

Less

More

Source: Forecasts for daily average particulate matter (PM 2.5)
concentration in micrograms per cubic meter are from the ECMWF
Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service.

Developing and newly industrialized regions experience some of the worst
particulate pollution today. But even high-income, developed economies,
which have made big strides in reducing such pollution, continue to
struggle with the quality of their air.

In the United States, which has some of the cleanest air in the world,
fine particulate matter still contributed to 88,000 premature deaths in
2015 --- making this pollution more deadly than both diabetes and the
flu. And pollution in America has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/10/24/climate/air-pollution-increase.html}{worsened
since 2016, reversing years of decline}.

Before governments can decide how best to tackle unhealthy air, Dr.
Karambelas said, they need to better understand the causes of pollution.
``Is it lax standards? No enforcement of the standards?'' she asked.
``Is something happening regionally that plays a large role?''

The city-level data shown here focuses on average particulate pollution,
allowing you to compare air quality across the world. But the amount of
pollution you breathe also varies within a city, from neighborhood to
neighborhood and block to block.

And pollution does not affect all groups equally.

A \href{https://www.pnas.org/content/116/13/6001}{recent study} found
that in the United States, people of color tend to breathe dirtier air
than white Americans, despite contributing far less to overall
pollution. Around the world,
\href{https://www.unenvironment.org/news-and-stories/story/air-pollution-hurts-poorest-most}{the
poorest suffer most} from unhealthy air.

\hypertarget{wildfires-increase-pollution-in-california-and-the-western-us}{%
\subsection{Wildfires Increase Pollution in California and the Western
U.S.}\label{wildfires-increase-pollution-in-california-and-the-western-us}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/11/11/air-pollution/f18c216dcd4fd1bf8cdf241b74749333dab9bc82/key-Artboard-sm.png}

DAILY Air quality based on PM2.5

35

150

250

500 µg/m3

Good

Unhealthy

Hazardous

Extreme

Data reflects regional estimates by
\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth} based on observations at ground-level monitoring stations.

Last year's deadly Camp Fire
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/12/26/us/paradise-california-camp-fire.html}{engulfed
Paradise, Calif.}, in the Sierra Nevada foothills, causing 85 deaths and
destroying nearly 19,000 buildings. Smoke from the fire blanketed much
of northern California for nearly two weeks, prompting health warnings.

In San Francisco, nearly 200 miles south of Paradise, fine particulate
pollution reached nearly 200 micrograms per cubic meter at the worst
hour, according to
\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth,} a nonprofit research group that aggregates data from air-quality
monitoring sites. Average daily air quality hovered between
``unhealthy'' and ``very unhealthy'' for 11 days. Schools were closed
and cable car service suspended; protective face masks and air filters
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/fires-in-california-protective-masks-high-demand-camp-fire-bay-area/}{sold
out at local stores}.

Further inland, Sacramento temporarily earned the unwelcome title of
\href{https://www.wunderground.com/cat6/Smoke-Camp-Fire-Making-Sacramento-Most-Polluted-City-Earth}{most
polluted city in the world}.

Such large, high-pollution fires have become more common across the West
in recent years, said Daniel Jaffe, a professor of atmospheric sciences
at the University of Washington.

``2018 had some of the worst ever air quality in Seattle, where I
live,'' he said. That year, smoke from fires in both eastern Washington
and north of the border in British Columbia clouded the city's skies for
more than a week.

Climate change, and the hot, dry conditions it creates, has led to more
catastrophic Western fires and, with them, more air pollution. But fire
hazards are also increasing because of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/15/climate/california-fires-wildland-urban-interface.html}{greater
development in areas abutting wildlands}, the over-suppression of
natural wildfires, and aging electrical infrastructure
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/03/18/business/pge-california-wildfires.html}{broken
power lines were identified as the cause of California's deadly Camp
Fire}).

Average air pollution in both Seattle and the Bay Area remains
relatively low outside of large fire events, but even periodic exposure
to such high levels of PM2.5 pollution can have
\href{https://www.wired.com/story/the-health-effects-of-wildfire-smoke-may-last-a-lifetime/}{lasting
health consequences}.

\hypertarget{air-quality-a-public-health-emergency-in-northern-india}{%
\subsection{Air Quality: A Public Health Emergency in Northern
India}\label{air-quality-a-public-health-emergency-in-northern-india}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/11/11/air-pollution/f18c216dcd4fd1bf8cdf241b74749333dab9bc82/key-Artboard-sm.png}

DAILY Air quality based on PM2.5

35

150

250

500 µg/m3

Good

Unhealthy

Hazardous

Extreme

Data reflects regional estimates by
\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth} based on observations at ground-level monitoring stations.

Last month, particulate pollution soared to apocalyptic highs in New
Delhi, a city that struggles with air quality throughout the year. On
the most polluted day, PM2.5 readings pushed past the limit of
``hazardous'' air and remained dangerously high over the following
weeks.

Officials\href{https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/epca-declares-public-health-emergency-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/71850416.cms}{declared
a public health emergency}, shutting down schools and
\href{https://twitter.com/arvindkejriwal/status/1190124368241795073?lang=en}{distributing
millions of protective face masks} to residents. Hundreds of flights
into and out of the city were canceled or delayed because of low
visibility.

In an effort to clear the hazy skies, the government temporarily halted
all construction projects and restricted the number of cars on the road,
requiring vehicles with odd- and even-numbered license plates to drive
on alternate days. But critics said those measures only scratched the
surface of the broader air quality crisis.

The early winter surge in air pollution has become
``\href{https://twitter.com/joshapte/status/1191110529592496130}{depressingly
predictable}'' over the past decade, said Joshua Apte, an air quality
scientist and assistant professor at the University of Texas at Austin.

Starting in late October and early November, smoke from upwind
agricultural burning combines with Delhi's year-round urban pollution
--- a toxic mix of vehicle exhaust, industrial emissions and
construction dust --- to create an eye-watering smog. Fireworks from
Diwali celebrations worsen the city's hazardous air.

At the same time, cold winter air coming down the Himalayan Mountains
traps pollution near the surface, creating a
\href{https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/images/41464/haze-along-the-himalaya}{belt
of haze} that can be seen from space. Cities across Northern India, from
nearby Agra all the way east to Kolkata, see similar seasonal patterns
of pollution.

``Extremes catch the headlines and everyone talks about it,'' Dr. Apte
said. ``But levels of pollution across the region are very high on a
normal winter day. Even when the sky appears to be blue in Delhi,
pollution concentrations often exceed what we know to be healthy.''

Last week, India's Supreme Court criticized state governments for
repeatedly failing to resolve the regional air pollution crisis and for
ignoring the court's previous orders to limit agricultural burning.

Calling clean air and water a constitutional right, the court said the
local governments should pay their citizens compensation if they fail to
clean up the environment and gave authorities six weeks to respond.
``Human life and health have been put in danger,'' the court wrote
\href{http://www.indiaenvironmentportal.org.in/files/file/air-pollution-India-SC_Order_25-Nov-2019.pdf}{in
its order}.

\hypertarget{chinas-war-against-air-pollution}{%
\subsection{China's `War Against Air
Pollution'}\label{chinas-war-against-air-pollution}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/11/11/air-pollution/f18c216dcd4fd1bf8cdf241b74749333dab9bc82/key-Artboard-sm.png}

DAILY Air quality based on PM2.5

35

150

250

500 µg/m3

Good

Unhealthy

Hazardous

Extreme

Data reflects regional estimates by
\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth} based on observations at ground-level monitoring stations. The
data is quality-controlled, but some anomalies or errors may persist.

Beijing was once synonymous with dirty air. But in 2014, the government
announced a ``war against pollution,'' pledging to clean up the
dangerous haze hanging over many of China's major cities.

``We will resolutely declare war against pollution as we declared war
against poverty,'' Premier Li Keqiang announced in front of 3,000
delegates at the National People's Congress in an address broadcast on
state television.

The country set strict limits on burning coal and implemented new
emissions standards for power plants and heavy industry. It also banned
the construction of new coal plants surrounding Beijing and other highly
polluted areas and shut down some of the oldest, most polluting plants.

Beijing, Shanghai and other large cities restricted the number of
high-polluting vehicles on their roads and
\href{https://www.scmp.com/business/china-business/article/2169709/shenzhens-all-electric-bus-fleet-worlds-first-comes-massive}{heavily
subsidized}\href{https://www.scmp.com/business/china-business/article/2169709/shenzhens-all-electric-bus-fleet-worlds-first-comes-massive}{electric
buses}.

Today, air quality in Beijing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/12/upshot/china-pollution-environment-longer-lives.html}{has
improved,} though skies remain far from clear. Average daily particulate
pollution hovers in the ``moderate'' to ``unhealthy'' range. The maximum
hourly reading reached nearly 250 micrograms per cubic meter last
November. But that's vastly lower than the levels of pollution that were
once common in the city. In 2013, Beijing recorded
\href{https://jech.bmj.com/content/69/3/201}{concentrations from 700 to
900}\href{https://jech.bmj.com/content/69/3/201}{µg/m3} of PM2.5, not
unlike the air in New Delhi last month.

In 2016,
\href{http://www.greenpeace.org/eastasia/news/blog/china-air-pollution-heading-west/blog/56213/}{a
report} from the environmental group Greenpeace warned that pollution
controls enacted in eastern China were pushing investment in polluting
industries to the west, making the air there more dangerous. Western
China is also prone to large seasonal sandstorms from April through
June, which contribute to unhealthy air.

Last year, two cities in the west --- Hotan and Kashgar, in Xinjiang
province --- still ranked among the
\href{https://www.airvisual.com/world-most-polluted-cities}{most
polluted} in the world.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2019/11/11/air-pollution/f18c216dcd4fd1bf8cdf241b74749333dab9bc82/qr-pm25.png}
View an enhanced version of this article in augmented reality by using
the
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/services/mobile/index.html}{NYTimes
app} on newer iPhones and iPads. Frame this QR tag using your camera app
for a link to this article.

Methodology

The\href{https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2016-04/documents/2012_aqi_factsheet.pdf}{E.P.A.'s
Air Quality Index} is a tool for helping the public understand air
pollution hazard. It is based on average daily (24-hour) pollution
exposure. In the top visualization, the hourly maximum particulate
levels are translated to the Air Quality Index in order to make the
concentration values easier to understand. In the charts, the A.Q.I.
categories are applied to daily average pollution.

The data for the top visualization and bar charts comes
from\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{}\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth}. Reported values are aggregated at a regional scale from
thousands of surface station measurements from around the world.

The map reflects satellite-derived estimates for particulate air
pollution from the European Union's Earth Observation Programme,
Copernicus. Air pollution is not reliably measured on the ground in many
parts of the world, including much of Africa and South America. Station
coverage is reflected
in\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{}\href{http://berkeleyearth.org/air-quality-real-time-map/}{Berkeley
Earth's real-time air pollution map}.

Read 216 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
