Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}`Blue Lives Matter' and
`Defund the Police' Clash in the Streets

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jv2Ue0}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Race
and America}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/26/us/protests-portland-seattle-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Protesters
  Return to Other Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/portland-oregon-protests-white-race.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Portland
  at the Center}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/podcasts/the-daily/portland-protests.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Podcast:
  Showdown in Portland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/16/us/black-lives-matter-protests-louisville-breonna-taylor.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{45
  Days in Louisville}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{blue-lives-matter-and-defund-the-police-clash-in-the-streets}{%
\section{`Blue Lives Matter' and `Defund the Police' Clash in the
Streets}\label{blue-lives-matter-and-defund-the-police-clash-in-the-streets}}

A recent number of pro-police rallies have led to fights and arrests as
civilian New Yorkers turn on one another over their view of the N.Y.P.D.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/21/nyregion/00nyunrest-bluelives/00nyunrest-bluelives-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Juliana Kim and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-wilson}{Michael
Wilson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Clashes between protesters and the police were familiar sights in the
days after the death of George Floyd under the knee of a police officer.
But a new kind of unrest has emerged in recent days: confrontations
between New Yorkers who support law enforcement and those who are
pressing for an overhaul of the Police Department.

There have been raw encounters in Brooklyn, Queens and in Manhattan, as
civilian groups identifying themselves as pro-police have led marches in
support of the men and women in blue.

The pro-police rallies also attract counterprotesters. Violent clashes
and arrests have played out this month as unsettling images of
civilian-versus-civilian rage echo back to past periods of racial
violence in the city. New Yorkers are shouting, not at police officers,
but over their shoulders, at one another.

Diane Atkins, a Bay Ridge resident, attended pro-police events in
Brooklyn on a Saturday and a Sunday earlier this month. ``We wanted to
stand up for our police officers,'' Ms. Atkins said. ``These are
everyday New Yorkers who could be your friends, family and neighbors.''

Most of the pro-police events have been neighborhood-based and organized
by local residents, using Facebook and other social media outlets to
gain traction. Others have been co-organized by local political groups,
such as the Brooklyn Conservative Party, though most organizers try to
refrain from discussing politics at their rallies.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/21/nyregion/00nyunrest-bluelives-02/00nyunrest-bluelives-02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The crowds, which are overwhelmingly white, have been a mix of retired
officers, their friends and family and other attendees who have said
they are rallying support for law and order. Many law enforcement
supporters feel local officers have been wrongly vilified since Mr.
Floyd's death. The rise of pro-police rallies is also a reaction to
legislative efforts to shrink the Police Department.

But the rallies, often known as ``Back the Blue'' or ``Blue Lives
Matter'' events, have been met by Black Lives Matter backers ---
racially diverse groups of protesters who are outraged at gatherings
that they see as undermining their own cause.

``For pro-cop rallies to come down into the streets and yell `white
lives matter' or `blue lives matter,' it almost takes away from the
conversation,'' said 18-year-old Abdullah Akl, who helped organize a
counterprotest in Bay Ridge. ``We aren't fighting against individual
police, we are fighting against the institution as a whole and all the
racism practices within.''

Organizers of counterprotests have said that they intend their
demonstrations to be
\href{https://docs.google.com/document/u/1/d/10I6F6sJfQB5NtZecobxN6mZ2Ua1eT0qe5PvZzGL0WrI/mobilebasic}{``a
peaceful, nonviolent show of opposition.''}

But quelling public anger has proved to be difficult for both sides.
Earlier this month in Brooklyn, in the Dyker Heights and Bay Ridge
neighborhoods, hundreds turned out for pro-police rallies that were
interrupted by protesters from the Black Lives Matter movement, and
tensions
\href{https://nypost.com/2020/07/11/blue-and-black-lives-matter-protesters-clash-in-nyc/}{quickly
escalated in confrontations} largely split along racial lines.

At the rally in Bay Ridge, pro-police participants waved American and
Thin Blue Line flags and election signs for President Trump.
Counterprotesters arrived with Black liberation flags and Black Lives
Matter banners. Fists and insults flew even as police officers stood
between the two groups.

Several people were seen being taken away by officers. The police later
said two people were arrested in Bay Ridge, one for throwing a helmet
into a crowd and the other for attempted assault.

Days later, a more violent clash took place on the Brooklyn Bridge.

A march of clergy to promote peace
\href{https://gothamist.com/news/blue-lives-matter-protesters-and-nypd-hijacked-black-led-prayer-march-organizers-say}{was
joined by a group of off-duty police officers} heading to City Hall
Park. Black Lives Matter protesters planned to meet the march halfway.
Before the two groups could face off, a few dozen on-duty officers
halted the Black Lives Matter protesters.

Again, violence broke out, but this time solely between police and Black
Lives Matter protesters. When a protester was being arrested on the
bridge, a woman attacked officers with a cane, the police said. Among
the targets were Terence A. Monahan, the Police Department's chief of
department and top uniformed officer, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/15/nyregion/terence-monahan-chief-injured.html}{sprained
a finger}. Other officers bled from head injuries, and several
protesters were injured. The police said 36 people were arrested.

Image

On the Brooklyn Bridge in mid-July, several N.Y.P.D. officers were
attacked.Credit...Yuki Iwamura/Associated Press

The incidents have each been separate, without a single group organizing
all the various ``Blue Lives'' events, but they share a frustration with
the criticism of police behavior and tactics and the calls to defund the
police.

The smartphone videos filmed at the events and shared on social media
tend to focus on the loudest and most volatile voices in attendance, but
others have quietly sought to mobilize backing for law enforcement.

Mary Ziegler, 43, who lives in Burnt Hills, N.Y., near Schenectady,
created a Facebook group **** to rally support for the police. In a
little over a month, the group has grown to over 9,000 members from
across the country.

``I would say this movement to `Back the Blue' was galvanized when calls
to defund and abolish the police became a very real force in this
country,'' Ms. Ziegler said in an email.

She recently created a Facebook event to organize a pro-police rally in
Albany next month.

President Trump has attacked calls to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/politics/trump-police-reform.html?searchResultPosition=3}{defund
the police}, calling the demand a fad. And earlier this month, he
criticized
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/25/nyregion/black-lives-matter-trump-tower-nyc.html}{Mayor
Bill de Blasio} for allowing ``Black Lives Matter'' to be painted on the
street outside Trump Tower. On Twitter, Mr. Trump said the painted motto
will ``further antagonize New York's Finest.''

It may have instead inspired them to create their own message: Last
week, two
\href{https://www.ny1.com/nyc/all-boroughs/news/2020/07/16/group-wants-blue-lives-matter-mural-near-nypd-headquarters}{police
advocacy groups called for} a ``Blue Lives Matter'' painting on a street
near 1 Police Plaza in Lower Manhattan.

Some pro-police rally attendees insist that their mission is not to
antagonize Black Lives Matter protesters. At a recent police rally in
Staten Island, Scott LoBaido, 55, told participants the message should
be kept positive.

``I emphasized if you're going to spew anti-B.L.M. rhetoric, that will
not be tolerated at this rally,'' he said.

And not everyone in pro-police circles favors the rallies. The Brooklyn
Young Republican Club turned down an invitation to the rally in Dyker
Heights, according to Joel Acevedo, 25, the president of the
organization.

``Good police do not need defending,'' Mr. Acevedo said. ``You can be
pro-police and still support accountability to a police system that
perpetuates inequities in Black communities. They're not mutually
exclusive.''

Image

Police stood between pro-police and Black Lives Matter
protesters.Credit...Diana Zeyneb Alhindawi for The New York Times

The mere presence and timing of the nascent movement --- and the ``Blue
Lives'' language --- has upset protesters calling for overhaul of
policing.

``The logic is nonsense,'' said Noah Weston, 35, an activist from Bay
Ridge who attended two pro-police rallies as a counterprotester. On
Saturday, he was treated at an emergency room after someone kicked him
in the groin.

``Blue is their uniform, and they can take it off,'' he said. ``But
Black people can't stop being Black at their leisure.''

Protesters who want to defund the police said they plan to disrupt
future pro-police rallies and are training their members on how to
respond to an angry reception.

Some who attended recent counterprotests said police officers were
aggressive toward Black Lives Matter protesters
\href{https://gothamist.com/news/nypd-accused-protecting-violent-blue-lives-matter-marchers-bay-ridge}{while
being lenient with pro-police attendees when trying to intervene} during
confrontations.

Joseph Imperatrice, 35, the founder of the group Blue Lives Matter-NYC,
attended the pro-police march in Bayside, Queens, in mid-July where
violent confrontations with Black Lives Matter protesters erupted.

The consistency of counterprotests and altercations at pro-cop rallies
has made Mr. Imperatrice cautious.

``That doesn't mean I won't go,'' Mr. Imperatrice said. ``But I'll
definitely think twice.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
