Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{New York}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/nyregion}{New York}\textbar{}Why N.Y.C. Delayed the First
Day of School

\url{https://nyti.ms/3bkg8Xn}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{school-reopenings}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=530463f0-f27a-11ea-adaf-9558d58a001f\&variant=undefined}{School
Reopenings}}{School Reopenings}}\label{school-reopenings}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/us/bar-exam-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=530463f1-f27a-11ea-adaf-9558d58a001f\&variant=undefined}{Delayed
  Licensing Exams}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/upshot/children-testing-shortfalls-virus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=530463f2-f27a-11ea-adaf-9558d58a001f\&variant=undefined}{Limited
  Testing for Children}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/world/schools-reopen-globe-students.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=53048b00-f27a-11ea-adaf-9558d58a001f\&variant=undefined}{School
  Around the World}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-schools-reopening\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=53048b01-f27a-11ea-adaf-9558d58a001f\&variant=undefined}{Tracking
  College Cases}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

New York Today

\hypertarget{why-nyc-delayed-the-first-day-of-school}{%
\section{Why N.Y.C. Delayed the First Day of
School}\label{why-nyc-delayed-the-first-day-of-school}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/troy-closson}{Troy
Closson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{{[}Want to get New York Today by email?}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/newyorktoday}{\emph{Here's
the sign-up}}\emph{.{]}}

\textbf{It's Wednesday.}

\textbf{Weather:} ** A wet start to the day, with patchy fog, though
skies might clear some in the afternoon. High around 80. **

\textbf{Alternate-side parking}: In effect until Monday (Labor Day).
\href{https://www1.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/motorist/alternate-side-parking.shtml?te=1\&nl=new-york-today\&emc=edit_ur_20200816\#reform}{Read
about the amended regulations here}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/02/nyregion/02nytoday/merlin_175918254_5ee3df40-1c4c-4705-a136-abcd20eae693-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Over the past few weeks, teachers and principals have rushed to prepare
for the return of 1.1 million children to public schools across New York
City.

Now they have a little more time to do so.

On Tuesday, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that in-person classes would
start on Sept. 21 --- 10 days later than initially planned. The shift
came as pressure intensified on the mayor to delay the school year, as
many educators said classrooms would not be ready to reopen next week.

Still, New York is on track to be the only major city in the country to
bring students into physical classrooms this fall.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/nyregion/schools-open-coronavirus-nyc.html}{\emph{Read
more about New York City's plan for the start of the school
year}}\emph{.{]}}

Here's what else you need to know about the mayor's announcement:

\hypertarget{the-details}{%
\subsubsection{The details}\label{the-details}}

Under the new plan, teachers will report to schools as scheduled next
week, using the additional time to set up their classrooms and meet with
students individually.

Once the semester starts, most families that have opted for in-person
learning will send their children to school one to three days per week
to allow for social distancing. Starting in October, the city will also
require random monthly coronavirus testing in all schools, with results
that will be ready within 48 hours, the mayor said.

Mr. de Blasio has said he will not reopen schools --- or will close them
--- if the city's test positivity rate
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening.html}{ticks
above 3 percent}. For weeks, it has hovered around 1 percent.

\hypertarget{the-context}{%
\subsubsection{The context}\label{the-context}}

Many teachers, raising alarm about ventilation in classrooms and testing
for staff members and students, had asked for the first day of school to
be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/nyregion/schools-reopen-nyc.html}{moved
back}. Some principals also
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/14/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening-plan.html}{supported
a delay}, saying that families' wide-ranging safety concerns about
in-person learning might not be addressed in time.

Mr. de Blasio had insisted that schools would be ready to reopen on
Sept. 10. The pressure to change those plans mounted this week, when the
city's powerful teachers' union was poised to authorize an illegal
strike for its 75,000 members.

The delay came as districts across the country were watching New York
City's reopening effort. Every other big-city mayor has opted to start
the school year fully remote.

Research on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/world/europe/germany-schools-virus-reopening.html}{reopenings
in other countries} with similar virus transmission rates suggests that
New York City's plan could work if case numbers remain low.

If successful, the effort could help stabilize the city's sputtering
economy, as many employers believe that school reopenings will play a
big role in whether people return to work.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-parents-schools.html}{\emph{A
parent's toughest call: In-person schooling or not?}}\emph{{]}}

\hypertarget{the-reaction}{%
\subsubsection{The reaction}\label{the-reaction}}

Some parent groups had joined calls for Mr. de Blasio to postpone the
reopening by at least a week, and while Tuesday's decision provided
that, the news also left many working families little time to rearrange
their schedules.

Still, the tone shifted among some of the loudest critics of the mayor's
initial plan.

Michael Mulgrew, the leader of the teachers' union, had previously
suggested that reopening schools without a delay would cause ``one of
the biggest debacles in history.'' After the mayor's announcement, he
said, ``We now can say that the New York City public schools system has
the most aggressive policies and safeguards of any school system in
America.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{from-the-times}{%
\subsection{From The Times}\label{from-the-times}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/nyregion/nyc-gyms-reopen.html}{After
5 Months, N.Y.C. Gyms Reopen. Here's What to Expect.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/nyregion/colleges-universities-covid-parties.html}{`Nobody
Likes Snitching': How Rules Against Parties Are Dividing Campuses}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-lawsuit.html}{Trump
Wins Another Delay in Turning Over Tax Returns}

\textbf{From New York Times Opinion:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/opinion/new-york-subway-coronavirus.html}{The
Subways Are Facing a Five-Alarm Fire}

Want more news?
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/nyregion}{Check out our
full coverage}.

\textbf{The Mini Crossword:} Here is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords/game/mini}{today's
puzzle}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{what-were-reading}{%
\subsection{What we're reading}\label{what-were-reading}}

A top \textbf{lawyer at the city's Board of Elections} has taken a leave
of absence amid an investigation into his conduct.
{[}\href{https://nypost.com/2020/09/01/nyc-board-of-elections-lawyer-takes-leave-amid-investigation/}{New
York Post}{]}

Census workers are facing a slew of challenges in avoiding an undercount
\textbf{weeks before the deadline}.
{[}\href{https://www.thecity.nyc/2020/8/31/21409347/census-workers-final-month-of-nyc-count}{The
City}{]}

A lawyer in the Bronx is \textbf{being accused of anti-Asian racism}
because of a term he used to refer to the coronavirus.
{[}\href{https://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/ny-bronx-attorney-chinese-cooties-coronavirus-email-20200901-v4ifwlmvlbczvovtqfj7dkiqby-story.html}{Daily
News}{]}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{and-finally-a-collection-of-black-music-history}{%
\subsection{And finally: A collection of Black music
history}\label{and-finally-a-collection-of-black-music-history}}

The idea began as a
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CBBYMINjC6E/}{viral slide show} on
Instagram. Its first image read: ``Your favorite music exists because of
Black people.''

The post, which recommends articles about pioneering Black artists, has
received more than 150,000 likes, as well as comments from people saying
they would attempt to change how they engage with music.

Jenzia Burgos, the Bronx woman who made the post, said the response made
her realize that she wanted to do more to raise awareness about Black
musicians' influence on various genres.

She spent the next two months compiling 45 pages of resources about the
history of Black artists' role in traditional and popular music. Three
weeks ago, she unveiled an online database of that information: the
\href{https://blackmusiclibrary.com/Library}{Black Music History
Library}.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/schools-reopening?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{school-reopenings-}{%
\subsubsection{School Reopenings ›}\label{school-reopenings-}}

\hypertarget{back-to-school}{%
\paragraph{Back to School}\label{back-to-school}}

Updated Sept. 8, 2020

The latest on how schools are reopening amid the pandemic.

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The first day of school is an annual rite of passage. But this year,
    it looks very different for tens of millions of students.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/us/virtual-return-to-school-covid.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{We
    talked to some about their hopes and fears}.
  \item
    Coronavirus cases
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/06/us/colleges-coronavirus-students.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{are
    spiking in America's college towns}, leading to concern that young
    people who are infected will contribute to a spread of the virus.
  \item
    A growing number of Catholic schools across the country are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/05/us/catholic-school-closings.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{shutting
    down forever during the coronavirus pandemic}, citing insurmountable
    financial pressure.
  \item
    The magazine's Ethicist columnist answers a question from a
    spokesperson at a major university:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/magazine/university-reopening-safety-ethics.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_keepup}{Can
    I promote a reopening plan I have doubts about}?
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``When we look at the face of a genre, whether it's an award show or
whether it's the thumbnail for a streaming playlist, why is the face of
that not a Black person?'' Ms. Burgos, who is a Puerto Rican-Dominican
music journalist, said.

The library attempts to address that, directing users to more than 1,000
resources --- among them a podcast about the influence of Black artists
on country music, an essay highlighting Black children who play heavy
metal and a documentary exploring the role of Black people within
predominantly white punk scenes.

Including a range of genres was important to her, she added, especially
ones like classical music and rock, which she said were often
``whitewashed'' when discussed by listeners.

She also sought to place emphasis on resources by Black authors and
creators, so that ``young people who are coming to this site see that
there are Black people writing about this music.''

Ms. Burgos said she hoped to eventually start a library newsletter and
bring others on board to help.

``I hope that folks not only realize how all the music that we listen to
is influenced by the Black community,'' Ms. Burgos said, ``but I also
hope they start to put their money where their mouth is.''

\emph{It's Wednesday --- listen up.}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{metropolitan-diary-best-part}{%
\subsection{Metropolitan Diary: Best
part}\label{metropolitan-diary-best-part}}

Image

Dear Diary:

Back when I taught at Brooklyn College, which is at the last stop on the
No. 2 line, the best part of my daily commute from the Upper West Side
was the trip home because I was assured to always get a seat.

One day, arriving at Wall Street, where the train always filled up, I
looked up from my perch to see a woman who was clearly pregnant.

I immediately offered her my seat (my father's ghost would never have
forgiven me if I hadn't). Thank yous and you're welcomes followed.

The next day, same commute, same woman entering at Wall Street, same
routine, same exchange. I figured we were transit buddies now.

``See you tomorrow,'' I said.

``Nope,'' she answered with a smile. ``This is my last day before
maternity leave.''

I sometimes wonder how her child is faring.

\emph{--- Fred Winter}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{New York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/newyorktoday?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up here}} \emph{to get it by email. You can also find it at}
\href{http://www.nytoday.com/}{\emph{nytoday.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{We're experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would
you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us:}
\href{mailto:nytoday@NYTimes.com}{\emph{nytoday@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
