Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}A Punch Is Seen,
and a Player Is Out

\url{https://nyti.ms/1pHbrFM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-punch-is-seen-and-a-player-is-out}{%
\section{A Punch Is Seen, and a Player Is
Out}\label{a-punch-is-seen-and-a-player-is-out}}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 8, 2014
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2014/09/09/sports/09rice-1/09rice-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The National Football League's handling of a domestic violence case is
under renewed scrutiny after a graphic video emerged Monday, leading to
the termination of the Baltimore Ravens star running back Ray Rice's
contract and his suspension from the league.

The video shows Rice punching his fiancée, who is now his wife, in the
face, leaving her motionless on the floor of a hotel elevator in
Atlantic City in February. He then dragged her unconscious body from the
elevator.

Rice was charged with felony assault in March, but his wife, Janay
Palmer, declined to testify. The charges were dropped and
court-supervised counseling was ordered. Roger Goodell, the N.F.L.
commissioner, disciplined Rice in July with
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/07/25/sports/football/ray-rice-draws-2-game-suspension-from-nfl.html}{a
two-game suspension}, a penalty that was widely
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/07/25/sports/football/a-penalty-for-abuse-is-less-than-for-steroids-.html}{criticized
as too lenient}.

Previously published video of the altercation was taken from a camera
outside the elevator and showed only the moments after Rice hit Palmer.
But the emergence of the new video, published by the website TMZ, raised
questions about what the N.F.L. knew, and when. A league spokesman said
``no one in our office has seen it until today,'' but he did not respond
to inquiries about whether any of the league's investigators who do not
work in the office had previously seen the video.

``What makes the N.F.L. look especially bad in this case is the sense
that the only reason they suspended Ray Rice indefinitely was to save
face, rather than to actually address or punish the problem at hand,''
said S. Adam Brasel, a professor of marketing at Boston College. ``Do
people think the N.F.L. would have done the same if they got the footage
internally rather than having the whole world see it on TMZ?''

The league enjoys unmatched popularity, with soaring TV ratings and
billions of dollars in revenue. But it has been tarnished by several
embarrassing issues in recent years, including homophobic and racist
bullying.

Late last month, after an uproar over his handling of the Rice case,
Goodell admitted that he had mishandled the case and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/29/sports/football/roger-goodell-admits-he-was-wrong-and-alters-nfl-policy-on-domestic-violence.html}{announced
new, tougher standards} for players and league employees who are found
to have committed domestic violence.

After saying for weeks that he had acted appropriately by suspending
Rice for two games, Goodell said that in the future, any N.F.L.
employee, including nonplayers, would be suspended for six games for a
first offense of domestic violence and a minimum of a year for a second
offense.

In a
\href{http://graphics8.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/packages/pdf/sports/Roger_Goodell_NFL/Roger_Goodell_letter.pdf}{letter
to team owners}, he said he took responsibility ``both for the decision
and for ensuring that our actions in the future properly reflect our
values. I didn't get it right.''

He did not, however, revisit Rice's suspension --- until the video was
posted Monday.

The Ravens had not previously disciplined Rice in any public way, and
after the episode, the team said on Twitter: ``Janay Rice says she
deeply regrets the role that she played the night of the incident.'' The
post was deleted Monday afternoon.

Rice, with his wife at his side, apologized publicly in May. The Ravens'
coach, John Harbaugh, said he stood by Rice, his star running back, and
Ravens fans gave Rice a loud ovation during a preseason game.

However, Harbaugh said Monday that the new video, which he said he was
seeing for the first time, made things different.

``It changed things, of course,'' Harbaugh said.

He added, ``When someone you care about does wrong, and is faced with
the consequences of doing wrong, and rightfully so, it is tough, it is
hurtful.''

Goodell, who has wide discretion to penalize players for violating the
league's personal conduct policy, was condemned for giving Rice what
many considered a
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/02/sports/football/roger-goodell-defends-his-two-game-suspension-of-ray-rice.html}{light
suspension}, especially compared with harsher penalties for players who
take performance-enhancing drugs. The N.F.L. received hundreds of phone
calls in protest, and petitions with tens of thousands of signatures
were collected.

The new video led to calls Monday from advocates for victims of domestic
violence for Goodell to penalize Rice retroactively. Hours later, the
Ravens
\href{https://twitter.com/Ravens/status/509043216977371136}{announced
Rice's release} on their Twitter account. Soon after, the league said it
had indefinitely suspended Rice.

``Commissioner Roger Goodell has announced that based on the new video
evidence that became available today, he has imposed an indefinite
suspension on Ray Rice,'' the N.F.L. said in a statement. Rice will have
to apply to be reinstated.

Advocates applauded the actions taken Monday. ``The Ravens have sent a
strong message against domestic violence,'' said Judy Harris Kluger,
executive director for Sanctuary for Families, a nonprofit agency in New
York that helps victims of domestic violence. ``It was impossible to
ignore or explain away.''

Over the next three years, Rice, the Ravens' second career leading
rusher and a three-time Pro Bowl player, was to receive \$9.5 million in
salary, \$9 million in signing bonuses and an additional \$5.2 million
in performance bonuses, according to the website
\href{http://www.spotrac.com/nfl/baltimore-ravens/ray-rice/}{Spotrac.com}.
Contracts often include terms that allow teams to terminate a deal with
a player if he acts in a way that is detrimental to the team.

The N.F.L. Players Association did not return calls for comment.

The league may have to overhaul the way it investigates player
malfeasance, sports lawyers said Monday. A spokesman for the N.F.L. said
in July that Goodell took his cue in the investigation in part from law
enforcement officials who had access to more information than the
league.

But Goodell has also said that the N.F.L. should be held to a higher
standard.

``The N.F.L. is going to have to review its due diligence in this
case,'' said Mark Conrad, who teaches sports law at Fordham University.
``Some have said the league should treat it as a criminal matter, but
it's a very public league, and if they want to keep their many
constituents happy, they are going to have to find a new way of doing
it.''

Rutgers University, where Rice played, also distanced itself from him on
Monday, removing a video on the team's website.

The university's athletic director, Julie Hermann, called the TMZ.com
video ``very disturbing'' and said it ``serves to reinforce the ongoing
need to educate and bring awareness to the issue of domestic violence.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
