Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Democrats Warn of Possible
Foreign Disinformation Plot Targeting Congress

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Cw0awo}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{democrats-warn-of-possible-foreign-disinformation-plot-targeting-congress}{%
\section{Democrats Warn of Possible Foreign Disinformation Plot
Targeting
Congress}\label{democrats-warn-of-possible-foreign-disinformation-plot-targeting-congress}}

Democrats demanded an F.B.I. briefing. They were concerned about a
potential Russian-linked effort to interfere in the election by using a
Senate panel to advance smears against Joe Biden, officials said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/20/us/politics/20dc-intel/merlin_174634548_6282e2f0-790a-4dc8-9aa4-300f44d9534d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-david-e-sanger/author-david-e-sanger-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-nicholas-fandos/author-nicholas-fandos-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-julian-barnes/author-julian-barnes-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-e-sanger}{David E. Sanger},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas Fandos} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julian-e-barnes}{Julian E. Barnes}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Top congressional Democrats warned in a cryptic letter they released on
Monday that a foreign power was using disinformation to try to interfere
in the presidential election and the activities of Congress, and
demanded a prompt briefing by the F.B.I. to warn every member of
Congress.

While the letter writers, led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, did not specify
the threat, officials familiar with a classified addendum attached to it
said the Democrats' concerns touched on intelligence related to a
possible Russian-backed attempt to smear the presidential campaign of
former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

They contend that the Russian-linked information is being funneled to a
committee headed by Senator Ron Johnson, the Wisconsin Republican who is
investigating Mr. Biden and his son, who was once paid as a board member
of a Ukrainian energy company. While neither Mr. Johnson's inquiry nor
much of the information in question is new, the Democrats' letter is an
attempt to call attention to their concern that the accusations are not
only unfounded but may further Russia's efforts to interfere again in
the American presidential election.

The warning had echoes of the 2016 campaign. In August of that year,
after receiving briefings from the head of the C.I.A. at the time, John
O. Brennan, the Senate minority leader at the time, Harry Reid, Democrat
of Nevada, publicly
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/30/us/politics/harry-reid-russia-tampering-election-fbi.html}{warned
of a Russian effort to undermine the 2016 elections.} Those efforts
accelerated as Election Day approached, and this year Ms. Pelosi and
other Democrats, including Representative Adam B. Schiff of California,
the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, have vowed to
highlight any similar efforts.

In the letter, addressed to Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, on
July 13, the Democrats wrote that they were ``gravely concerned, in
particular, that Congress appears to be the target of a concerted
foreign interference campaign, which seeks to launder and amplify
disinformation in order to influence congressional activity, public
debate and the presidential election in November.''

Ms. Pelosi was joined by Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the party's
leader in the Senate, as well as Mr. Schiff and Senator Mark Warner of
Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Democrats did not ask Republicans to sign on, according to a
congressional official familiar with the letter who insisted on
anonymity to discuss it.

Patrick Boland, a spokesman for Mr. Schiff's committee, declined to
comment on the content of the intelligence that led to the letter.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Biden issued a statement on Monday, apparently independently of the
congressional Democrats' request to the F.B.I., that echoed many of the
same themes. ``I am putting the Kremlin and other foreign governments on
notice,'' he said, in his most extensive comments on evidence of renewed
Russian activity. ``If elected president, I will treat foreign
interference in our election as an adversarial act that significantly
affects the relationship between the United States and the interfering
nation's government.''

He said he would ``direct the U.S. intelligence community to report
publicly and in a timely manner on any efforts by foreign governments
that have interfered, or attempted to interfere, with U.S. elections,''
accusing President Trump of ignoring such evidence.

Behind the congressional Democrats' warning are the efforts of a
Ukrainian lawmaker, Andriy Derkach, who was educated in a K.G.B.-backed
school and was, until recently, closely aligned with a pro-Russian
political faction in Ukraine. In May he released tapes of what he said
were fragments of telephone conversations between Mr. Biden, then the
vice president, and Ukraine's president at the time, Petro O.
Poroshenko.

The purported tapes did little to change the understanding of the elder
Mr. Biden's engagement with Ukraine's leadership. Mr. Biden had publicly
insisted that aid to Kyiv could be tied to the firing of a Ukrainian
prosecutor, whom the United States and European nations had accused of
corruption. So far, the accusations emanating from Mr. Derkach and
others about Mr. Biden and his son, Hunter, have either been debunked or
not been substantiated by any independent sources.

But the accusations, fueled by release of the tapes, led to more online
conspiracy theories, which American intelligence officials have warned
may well have their origins in Russia. Mr. Johnson has at various
moments said he would subpoena evidence surrounding the dealings with
Ukraine in the last years of the Obama administration, and **** The
Washington Post reported this month
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/for-months-trump-allies-hunted-for-tapes-of-biden-in-ukraine-now-theyre-turning-up/2020/06/30/f3aeaba8-a67b-11ea-8681-7d471bf20207_story.html}{that
there was an effort among Ukrainian officials to pass the tapes} to Mr.
Johnson's committee.

Mr. Trump has cheered his work. Pressure Mr. Trump put on Ukraine's
leaders last year to investigate some of the same issues ultimately led
to his impeachment, and in addition to raising questions about Mr. Biden
and his son, Mr. Johnson's investigation has lent some senatorial
legitimacy to Mr. Trump's claims about the matter.

The investigation focuses on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/01/us/politics/biden-son-ukraine.html}{Hunter
Biden's work for a Ukrainian energy firm}, Burisma Holdings, and whether
his presence and lucrative paycheck were meant to improperly curry favor
with the Obama administration.
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/20/democrats-fbi-briefing-foreign-interference-campaign-373134}{Politico
first reported} that the Democrats' concerns were connected to Mr.
Johnson's work.

A spokesman for Mr. Johnson, Austin Altenburg, said the chairman and his
staff had already requested briefings from F.B.I. officials, and he
accused Democrats of hypocrisy for ignoring recently declassified
documents that suggested the F.B.I. may have relied on potentially
tainted information in its investigation of ties between Mr. Trump's
campaign and Russia.

The letter from the Democrats asked for the F.B.I. to share what it
knows with all lawmakers, ``given the seriousness and specificity of
these threats.'' The Democrats requested a briefing on the matter by the
end of the month, when lawmakers are scheduled to leave Washington for
several weeks.

Mr. Wray has previously warned that Russia would attempt to interfere in
the 2020 election, probably changing the playbook it deployed four years
ago.

The letter implied that the lawmakers --- who are regularly privy to
sensitive intelligence --- had seen reporting and analysis by American
intelligence agencies that prompted concern, but not necessarily that
the information was new. They sent copies to Gina Haspel, the C.I.A.
director, and Gen. Paul M. Nakasone, the director of the National
Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command.

Despite Mr. Trump's unease discussing Russian efforts to influence
elections --- and his refusal to say he would stop any foreign
assistance to his own campaign --- top national security officials
working for him at the Department of Homeland Security and intelligence
agencies have insisted that securing the vote in November is a top
concern.

General Nakasone described in a speech on Monday ``our No. 1 goal, our
No. 1 objective at the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command:
a safe, secure and legitimate 2020 elections.''

``We are going to know our adversaries better than they know
themselves,'' he said.

He made no specific reference to current investigations of Russia,
though he had directed an effort to neutralize Russia's Internet
Research Agency and some Russian intelligence operatives during the 2018
midterms. Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/11/us/politics/trump-russia-cyber-attack.html}{recently
took credit for that effort.}

An F.B.I. spokeswoman acknowledged that the bureau had received the
letter, but declined to comment further.

Mr. Wray is in a precarious position. Although appointed by Mr. Trump,
he is considered suspect by the president. And while Mr. Trump has
complained that the Russia and Ukraine investigations that led to Mr.
Trump's impeachment --- which also focused on his efforts to obtain
incriminating information about Mr. Biden and his son --- was a
``hoax,'' the Russian nexus with Ukrainian officials remains the subject
of federal investigators.

Now Republicans have come back with their own investigations, focused on
Hunter Biden and Burisma. In the course of its investigation, the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee has relied
extensively on a former Ukrainian official, Andrii Telizhenko. Mr.
Telizhenko has insisted that he is not trying to interfere in the
presidential election, and that he would turn the information he
received over to unspecified American officials.

In March, however, F.B.I. officials warned lawmakers in a briefing that
it had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/11/us/politics/senate-subpoena-ron-johnson-ukraine.html}{concerns
that Mr. Telizhenko was a conduit for Russian disinformation} about the
Bidens and claims that Ukraine conspired to help Democrats in the 2016
election. After the briefing, lawmakers in both parties pressured Mr.
Johnson to abandon a vote to subpoena Mr. Telizhenko, and he turned his
attention to other possible sources of information.

Senate Democrats on the committee, who view its work as an attempt to
simply smear Mr. Biden ahead of election, wrote to Mr. Johnson again
last week demanding that he schedule a briefing with the F.B.I.'s
foreign influence task force and other intelligence agencies about his
work.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
