Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Loyalist Mixes
Businesses and Access at `Advisory' Firm

\url{https://nyti.ms/2hlv0wm}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-loyalist-mixes-businesses-and-access-at-advisory-firm}{%
\section{Trump Loyalist Mixes Businesses and Access at `Advisory'
Firm}\label{trump-loyalist-mixes-businesses-and-access-at-advisory-firm}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/08/02/us/02DC-lobby/merlin-to-scoop-125220719-347245-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-confessore}{Nicholas
Confessore} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 1, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Three months ago, Corey Lewandowski, President Trump's first campaign
manager, quit a new Washington lobbying firm he had helped start after
the election, amid scrutiny over his firm's clients and his
extraordinary access to Mr. Trump. But Mr. Lewandowski's departure from
the influence business did not last long.

About a week after leaving his old firm, Mr. Lewandowski started a new
consulting business, according to corporate filings. And now, as he
takes on an increasingly broad role as an unofficial White House
adviser, he is building a roster of clients with major interests before
the Trump administration, including an Ohio-based payday lender seeking
to block or overturn new federal financial regulations.

Mr. Lewandowski appears to be positioning his new firm as an
``advisory'' business, part of a growing cohort of Washington
influencers who advise companies on how to navigate the government but
do not register as lobbyists or disclose their clients. A draft contract
obtained by The New York Times stipulates that Mr. Lewandowski's firm
``cannot and will not engage in any lobbying or advocacy services.''

But his new firm once again puts Mr. Lewandowski at the center of the
ethical quandaries surrounding the Trump White House, where the
president has given significant access and power to friends and
loyalists who are not on the government payroll but work as lobbyists or
retain significant outside business interests.

Mr. Trump's ``kitchen cabinet'' includes Washington lobbyists, a variety
of so-called strategic advisers who provide advice on government policy
making but are not registered as lobbyists, and a panoply of wealthy
friends with extensive business interests before the government, such as
the billionaire corporate raider Carl C. Icahn, an unsalaried ``special
adviser to the president on regulatory reform.''

Besides Mr. Lewandowski, a number of other Trump aides have joined
advisory firms or struck deals with lobbying firms eager to have
influence with the Trump administration, among them Jason Miller, a
former campaign aide who now works for Teneo Strategy, and Michael D.
Cohen, Mr. Trump's self-described ``personal lawyer,'' who in April
\href{http://www.squirepattonboggs.com/en/news/2017/04/squire-patton-boggs-forms-strategic-alliance-with-michael-d-cohen-and-associates}{announced}
a ``strategic alliance'' with Squire Patton Boggs.

Mr. Lewandowski started his new business, Lewandowski Strategic
Advisors, in May, according to corporate documents filed in Delaware,
eight days after he announced he would part ways with the Washington
lobbying firm he helped found, Avenue Strategies. Mr. Lewandowski has
recently discussed expanding the new firm by adding, among others, two
more Trump insiders --- the former Trump deputy campaign manager David
Bossie and George Gigicos, who stepped down Monday as Mr. Trump's White
House advance director --- according to two associates.

Among the first new clients of Lewandowski Strategic Advisors is an
Ohio-based company called Community Choice Financial. The company is a
leader in the payday lending industry, which has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/02/business/dealbook/payday-borrowings-debt-spiral-to-be-curtailed.html}{faced
heightened federal scrutiny} in recent years.

Payday lenders have energetically fought efforts by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to limit loan practices that consumer
advocates have called abusive. Community Choice Financial's chief
executive, William E. Saunders Jr., once referred to the bureau as ``the
great Darth Vader'' of the federal government.

The White House did not respond to questions about whether Mr.
Lewandowski had discussed the payday lending regulations with
administration officials. In an email, Mr. Lewandowski said he was not a
lobbyist. ``I don't lobby and I don't intend to lobby --- ever,'' he
wrote.

But Mr. Lewandowski, who is known for his keen understanding of Mr.
Trump's news media tastes and habits, used
\href{http://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/video/fire-richard-cordray-lewandowski-to-new-chief-of-staff-1013246531986}{an
appearance on NBC's ``Meet the Press''} on Sunday to press his new
client's interests, calling for Mr. Trump to oust the bureau's director,
Richard Cordray, an Obama holdover who has led the effort to pass new
payday lending requirements.

``It's my recommendation to the president of the United States to fire
Richard Cordray,'' Mr. Lewandowski said.

He added a criticism of
\href{https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-issues-rule-ban-companies-using-arbitration-clauses-deny-groups-people-their-day-court/}{a
new rule issued by the bureau} last month that bans financial companies
from using
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/business/dealbook/arbitration-everywhere-stacking-the-deck-of-justice.html}{mandatory
arbitration clauses} in customer contracts. The Trump administration has
already said it would support congressional efforts to nullify the
arbitration rule.

Rejecting a question from the ``Meet the Press'' host, Chuck Todd, about
whether he had ``a client that wants to see'' Mr. Cordray fired, Mr.
Lewandowski said: ``No, no. I have no clients whatsoever.'' He explained
his opposition to Mr. Cordray by pointing to a similar position taken by
Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas and the chairman of
the House Financial Services Committee, who has called on Mr. Trump to
\href{https://www.housingwire.com/articles/39774-hensarling-to-cfpbs-cordray-you-deserve-to-be-fired-immediately}{dismiss
Mr. Cordray}.

But a draft contract obtained by The Times indicates that in July, after
Mr. Lewandowski left Avenue, Community Choice Financial offered him a
\$20,000-a-month retainer in return for ``strategic advice and counsel
designed to further the goals of Community Choice Financial.''

Mr. Lewandowski had previously helped recruit Community Choice Financial
as a client for Avenue Strategies, which reported receiving \$160,000
for lobbying from the lender, according to congressional
\href{https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails\&filingID=8BD796AE-C00E-432D-BF11-1CD04065AB8E\&filingTypeID=1}{disclosure
forms}.

Asked on Tuesday whether he worked for Community Choice Financial, Mr.
Lewandowski offered no denial.

Documents obtained by The Times indicate that Bridgette C. Roman, an
executive vice president and the general counsel of Community Choice
Financial, was among the company officials personally involved in
negotiating Mr. Lewandowski's contract. Reached by phone, Ms. Roman said
she was ``not familiar'' with Mr. Lewandowski and would seek more
information from colleagues.

``It's just not ringing a bell to me,'' Ms. Roman said. She did not
reply to a follow-up email.

Though he was fired by Mr. Trump during the 2016 campaign after a bitter
power struggle with the campaign chairman, Paul J. Manafort, Mr.
Lewandowski remains close to Mr. Trump. The two talk regularly,
according to associates of both men, and Mr. Lewandowski enjoys frequent
access to the White House and his former boss.

Mr. Lewandowski left Avenue after
\href{http://www.politico.com/story/2017/04/28/corey-lewandowski-trump-meetings-237725}{revelations}
that a second firm he created with his Avenue co-founder, Barry Bennett,
was listed on business pitches promising prospective clients meetings
with Mr. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and other senior members of
their administration. Though Mr. Bennett and Mr. Lewandowski said the
proposals had been circulated by a business partner without their
permission, several White House aides reached out to Mr. Lewandowski to
express displeasure with the attention the business was attracting. He
left Avenue soon after.

One Republican consultant familiar with the White House's concerns said
Mr. Lewandowski was acutely aware of how his business reflected on the
administration he helped elect. He never talks with the president about
specific client concerns, the consultant said.

But Chris Ruddy, a conservative news media executive and friend of Mr.
Trump's, said the president generally seemed less concerned with his
former aides' outside business interests. ``The president respects
loyalty, and Corey has been extremely loyal to him through thick and
thin,'' Mr. Ruddy said. ``As long as that continues to be the case, the
president is going to be supportive of Corey.''

Since leaving Avenue --- and starting Lewandowski Strategic Advisors ---
Mr. Lewandowski has become a more regular visitor to the White House and
a more active player in Mr. Trump's political circle. Last month, Mr.
Trump gave Mr. Lewandowski and Mr. Bossie the task of drumming up
support for an ultimately unsuccessful last-ditch effort to resuscitate
the Trump-backed effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act.

Last week, Mr. Lewandowski and Mr. Bossie traveled aboard Air Force One
to a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/25/us/politics/trump-ohio-rally.html}{rally
in Youngstown, Ohio}, with the president and his White House staff. Mr.
Lewandowski also recently changed his Twitter profile picture:
\href{https://twitter.com/CLewandowski_}{It is now a shot} of him aboard
Air Force One.

Fred Wertheimer, the president of the watchdog group Democracy 21, said
Mr. Trump's White House appeared to be allowing outside advisers an
extraordinary amount of sway within the administration. Democrats in
Congress have asked the Securities and Exchange Commission to
investigate whether Mr. Icahn has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/09/business/dealbook/carl-icahn-scrutinized-for-shaping-policy-that-helped-him-profit.html}{pushed
policies that have benefited his own businesses}.

Advisers like Mr. Icahn and Mr. Lewandowski exist in a ``never-never
land,'' Mr. Wertheimer said, allowed a high degree of White House access
while remaining unfettered by the ethics rules and financial disclosures
that apply to government employees.

``This is self-dealing by these intermediaries,'' Mr. Wertheimer said.
``They aren't in there to give good advice about what an administration
should do. They're in there to get special influence for their clients
or financial benefits for themselves.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
