Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}It's Patrick
Mahomes's N.F.L., but Let's Preview All 32 Teams Anyway

\url{https://nyti.ms/3byhoWS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

2020 N.F.L. Season Preview

\hypertarget{its-patrick-mahomess-nfl-but-lets-preview-all-32-teams-anyway}{%
\section{It's Patrick Mahomes's N.F.L., but Let's Preview All 32 Teams
Anyway}\label{its-patrick-mahomess-nfl-but-lets-preview-all-32-teams-anyway}}

Mahomes and Lamar Jackson headline an exciting new era of the N.F.L.,
which is on track for an on-time return to the field, just as planned.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/07/sports/07nfl-teampreviews/merlin_168316449_d2b22368-20a7-4d67-8aa4-786278e53bfc-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/17/multimedia/author-benjamin-hoffman/author-benjamin-hoffman-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-hoffman}{Benjamin
Hoffman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 7, 2020Updated Sept. 9, 2020, 11:36 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

While just about every other American sports league had to radically
change its season because of the coronavirus, the N.F.L. waited
patiently, insisting it would
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/sports/football/nfl-schedule.html}{stick
with its normal timeline}. That confidence appears to have paid off,
with the league set to kick off on Thursday, just as it said it would
all along.

The league should look and feel quite different, as most Week 1 games
are expected to be played minus fans in the stands --- the Dallas
Cowboys insist they will have a crowd --- and plenty of important
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/08/sports/football/nfl-players-opt-out.html}{players
have opted out}.

But, focusing solely on the game, the N.F.L. is in great shape. A new
generation of quarterbacks, led by Patrick Mahomes of the Kansas City
Chiefs and Lamar Jackson of the Baltimore Ravens, has made the league
even more exciting, and unexpected turnarounds by certain teams in
recent seasons have made it seem that any franchise is a move or two
away from relevance.

To get everyone caught up, we broke the league down, team by team,
looking at what's changed and what you might expect during what should
be an exciting, unusual season.

\hypertarget{breaking-down-the-divisions}{%
\subsubsection{Breaking Down the
Divisions}\label{breaking-down-the-divisions}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-652486c8}{A.F.C. East: Tom Brady Doesn't Live
  Here Anymore}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3104d825}{A.F.C. North: The Division That
  Runs}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-32b9b495}{A.F.C. South: Three Good Teams and
  Jacksonville}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3dfad86a}{A.F.C. West: Property of Patrick
  Lavon Mahomes II}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-38ffe51b}{N.F.C. East: Where 9-7 Is Enough}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2b33199e}{N.F.C. North: The Packers and
  Friends}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-12ca264c}{N.F.C. South: Assisted Living for
  Aging Quarterbacks}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-cd6fbd8}{N.F.C. West: The Best Division in
  Football}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{afc-east-tom-brady-doesnt-live-here-anymore}{%
\subsection{A.F.C. East: Tom Brady Doesn't Live Here
Anymore}\label{afc-east-tom-brady-doesnt-live-here-anymore}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/sports/04nfl-previews/merlin_161299026_a27a3ef5-8602-4b7c-be9f-09998d3bc277-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{buffalo-bills}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Buffalo
Bills}}{Buffalo Bills}}\label{buffalo-bills}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for wide receiver Stefon Diggs.

\textbf{Outlook:} The Bills (10-6) made the playoffs in two of the past
three seasons; two of the teams in their division are in
talent-acquisition mode; and the other one just said goodbye to a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/17/sports/football/tom-brady-patriots.html}{six-time
Super Bowl-winning quarterback}. It might be time to get excited in
Buffalo (something Bills fans are known for, even if
\href{https://www.buffalobills.com/news/11-questions-with-bills-superfan-pinto-ron}{Pinto
Ron} will have to be sprayed with condiments at home this year).

The known quantity is the team's defense, where cornerback Tre'Davious
White leads one of the best units in the N.F.L. and Ed Oliver, a
second-year defensive tackle, is poised for a breakout.

The question is what to make of the offense. Quarterback Josh Allen
mostly needs to hold steady and let the defense cook, but he's young,
has a big arm, and a lot of confidence. With Diggs and his fellow wide
receivers John Brown and Cole Beasley running routes, the temptation to
let the ball fly will be high.

\hypertarget{jets}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Jets}}{Jets}}\label{jets}}

\textbf{Key move:} Drafting
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/28/sports/football/jets-mekhi-becton-draft.html}{Mekhi
Becton.}

\textbf{Outlook:} The Jets (7-9) began last season 1-7, but went 6-2 the
rest of the way. That improvement was largely a reflection of their
opponents, but it was also better than losing. That they landed a
terrific left tackle prospect, Louisville's Becton, at No. 11 in the
draft was a cherry on top, because he can spend a decade protecting the
team's most prized asset: quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/24/sports/football/sam-darnold-jets.html}{Sam
Darnold}.

On offense, things should look up. Darnold is the real deal, running
back Le'Veon Bell can't be as bad as he was last season --- right? ---
and wide receiver Breshad Perriman was a good pickup.

The team's sneaky-good defense is one of the masterworks of Gregg
Williams's career as a coordinator, but Williams has a challenge ahead
of him since safety Jamal Adams was traded to Seattle and linebacker
C.J. Moseley opted out of the season. Williams does not lack for
confidence, but Adams and Moseley papered over deficiencies, so their
absence will be felt.

Image

Seeing Cam Newton at quarterback for the Patriots will be an adjustment,
but his skillset matches up well with the offense that the coordinator
Josh McDaniels, left, likes to run.Credit...Pool photo by Steven Senne

\hypertarget{new-england-patriots}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{New England
Patriots}}{New England Patriots}}\label{new-england-patriots}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/sports/football/cam-newton-new-england-patriots.html}{Cam
Newton}?

\textbf{Outlook:} Throughout the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/29/sports/football/cam-newton-patriots-deal.html}{Bill
Belichick} era, the Patriots (12-4) have jettisoned good players left
and right without losing a step. But the constant over those two decades
was quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/football/tom-brady-tampa-bay-buccaneers.html}{Tom
Brady}.

By itself,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/19/sports/football/tom-brady-boston-patriot-fans.html}{Brady's
departure} isn't reason to be particularly skeptical about New England,
because he was fairly bad last season. But factor in the defense's loss
of Kyle Van Noy, Jamie Collins, Elandon Roberts and Dont'a Hightower
through free agency and opt-outs, and the team seems gutted.

There is potential for Newton to thrive in an offense designed by Josh
McDaniels to suit a player of his skills. But that will require Newton
be healthy --- something that hasn't happened in a while --- and anyone
from a lackluster group of wide receivers to step up.

It would be unwise to assume Belichick can't make this work, especially
when he has the best secondary in the N.F.L., but it would be a notable
recovery even for someone with his track record.

\hypertarget{miami-dolphins}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Miami
Dolphins}}{Miami Dolphins}}\label{miami-dolphins}}

\textbf{Key move:} Adding good players instead of subtracting them.

\textbf{Outlook:} After a series of fire-sale moves last season, there
was talk of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/29/sports/football/miami-dolphins-bad-worst.html}{Dolphins'
finishing 0-16}. But a funny thing happened on the way to the No. 1
draft pick: Coach
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/19/sports/football/brian-flores-dolphins.html}{Brian
Flores coaxed} some surprising wins out of his team, including a
season-ending shocker over New England, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/sports/football/nfl-draft-first-round-patriots.html}{Miami
(5-11) dropped to the No. 5 pick}.

Expecting much out of the team this year would be somewhat unreasonable,
as the Dolphins have largely started from scratch. But with upgrades on
both sides of the ball --- particularly in the secondary --- a pair of
strong wide receivers in DeVante Parker and Preston Williams, and the
potential for a strong running game if Jordan Howard or Matt Breida can
stay healthy, the idea that Flores can make the team competitive is not
outlandish.

All eyes, however, will be on the rookie quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/tua-tagovailoa.html}{Tua
Tagovailoa}, who is currently the team's backup, but just one
four-interception game by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/sports/football/nfl-quarterback-controversies.html}{Ryan
Fitzpatrick} away from starting.

\hypertarget{afc-north-the-division-that-runs}{%
\subsection{A.F.C. North: The Division That
Runs}\label{afc-north-the-division-that-runs}}

Image

Calais Campbell had 31.5 sacks over the last three seasons in
Jacksonville and should add an enormous presence on Baltimore's
defensive line.Credit...Tommy Gilligan/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

\hypertarget{baltimore-ravens}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Baltimore
Ravens}}{Baltimore Ravens}}\label{baltimore-ravens}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for defensive end Calais Campbell.

\textbf{Outlook:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/10/sports/football/lamar-jackson-ravens.html}{Lamar
Jackson} of the Ravens (14-2) broke the N.F.L.'s single-season rushing
record for a quarterback and threw
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/players/J/JackLa00.htm}{36
touchdown passes}. You don't need much more analysis of Baltimore's
success last season than that. But even after a second consecutive
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/12/sports/football/lamar-jackson-ravens-playoffs.html}{playoff
letdown}, there is no reason to believe the Ravens' ground-heavy offense
can't succeed in the playoffs.

Some regression to the mean should be expected from Jackson. He runs at
a rate that is highly unusual for a quarterback, and teams have probably
picked apart film of his passing. But the Ravens have plenty of solid
running backs to complement him, and they drafted another in Ohio
State's J.K. Dobbins. The only real concern is the retirement of right
guard Marshal Yanda.

Baltimore's defense could actually be better. The veterans Derek Wolfe
and Campbell were added to the team's front seven, and while
\href{https://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/29723620/sources-ravens-cut-trade-earl-thomas-dispute}{safety
Earl Thomas} was released late in training camp, the team is strong
enough to sustain that loss.

\hypertarget{pittsburgh-steelers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Pittsburgh
Steelers}}{Pittsburgh Steelers}}\label{pittsburgh-steelers}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing tight end Eric Ebron.

\textbf{Outlook:} The 2019 Steelers (8-8) had a .500 record even though
quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/16/sports/football/ben-roethlisberger-drew-brees-injury.html}{Ben
Roethlisberger} appeared in just six quarters of football all season.
That such a monumental achievement was viewed by many as disappointing
is a testament to the standards for the team under Coach Mike Tomlin.

Roethlisberger is back after surgery to repair his right elbow, which
should be great news for running back James Conner and wide receiver
JuJu Smith-Schuster. The team also added a major red zone weapon in
Ebron.

The team doesn't really need Roethlisberger to have another 5,000-yard
passing season, since its defense should comfortably be one of the five
best in the N.F.L. From T.J. Watt on the defensive line to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/sports/football/minkah-fitzpatrick-trade-steelers.html}{Minkah
Fitzpatrick in the secondary}, and everyone in between, this is a loaded
unit that could look even better if the offense stays on the field
longer than it did last season.

Image

Nick Chubb of the Browns has already provided incredible return as a
second-round pick in 2018, rushing for 2,490 yards and 16 touchdowns
over his first two seasons.Credit...Ron Schwane/Associated Press

\hypertarget{cleveland-browns}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Cleveland
Browns}}{Cleveland Browns}}\label{cleveland-browns}}

\textbf{Key move:} Hiring Kevin Stefanski as head coach.

\textbf{Outlook:} It can't be as bad as last season. The Browns simply
have too much talent to go 6-10 again. Maybe.

The
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/10/sports/football/baker-mayfield-odell-beckham-browns.html}{expectation
under Coach Freddie Kitchens} last season was that quarterback
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/players/M/MayfBa00.htm}{Baker
Mayfield} would take the leap to superstardom. Instead Mayfield seemed
to get much worse than he was as a rookie in 2018, leaving running back
\href{https://www.pro-football-reference.com/players/C/ChubNi00.htm}{Nick
Chubb} to be the team's breakout star. While Chubb was nothing short of
phenomenal, and may be capable of even more, an offense designed
by\href{https://www.clevelandbrowns.com/team/coaches-roster/kevin-stefanski}{Stefanski}
should lead to more opportunities for Mayfield to get the ball to wide
receivers Odell Beckham Jr. and Jarvis Landry and tight ends Austin
Hooper and David Njoku.

The team's defense has building blocks like defensive end Myles Garrett
and cornerback Denzel Ward, and the potential to be well above average.

Everything looks great on paper. Of course, everything looked great on
paper last season.

\hypertarget{cincinnati-bengals}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Cincinnati
Bengals}}{Cincinnati Bengals}}\label{cincinnati-bengals}}

\textbf{Key move:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/joe-burrow-nfl-draft.html}{Drafting
quarterback Joe Burrow}.

\textbf{Outlook:} Running back Joe Mixon is a terrific player, but if
Coach Zac Taylor is going to open up the Bengals (2-14) offense, it will
have to happen through a passing game led by the No. 1 overall draft
pick. Burrow has all the tools he'll need in the veteran wide receiver
A.J. Green and the rookie Tee Higgins, and if the ball starts flying
downfield, the thought of Mixon being able to run without a stacked box
in front of him will be fairly terrifying to opponents.

Patience is still key. The team's talent deficiencies were a big reason
for its N.F.L.-worst record last season, and even after a free agent
spending spree, plus a well-regarded draft, this team should be viewed
very much as a work in progress.

\hypertarget{afc-south-three-good-teams-and-jacksonville}{%
\subsection{A.F.C. South: Three Good Teams and
Jacksonville}\label{afc-south-three-good-teams-and-jacksonville}}

Image

Ryan Tannehill and Derrick Henry seemed to unlock each other's potential
last season. If they can do that for 16 games, the Titans will be tough
to beat.Credit...Will Newton/Getty Images

\hypertarget{tennessee-titans}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Tennessee
Titans}}{Tennessee Titans}}\label{tennessee-titans}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing defensive end Jadeveon Clowney.

\textbf{Outlook:} There were two distinct chapters last season for the
Titans (9-7): before Ryan Tannehill and after. While many attributed the
veteran quarterback's success to the dominance of running back Derrick
Henry,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/09/sports/football/titans-ravens-henry-tannehill.html}{their
relationship was far more symbiotic than it got credit for}. Tannehill's
efficiency and ability to aggressively throw downfield unlocked Henry's
enormous potential.

The key players are back on offense, with Tannehill receiving far more
money in the hope that he will provide something close to the same
results, and Henry trying not to fall prey to the curse of rushing
leaders, who often decline the next season.

Tennessee's defense, however, will look a lot different. Defensive
tackle Jurrell Casey, cornerback Logan Ryan and linebacker Wesley
Woodyard are all gone. The unit, with some development from second-year
tackle Jeffrey Simmons, may not collapse entirely, especially after
signing Clowney to a one-year deal. But the Titans took quite a risk in
shaking up their defense so much to help pay for their offense.

\hypertarget{houston-texans}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Houston
Texans}}{Houston Texans}}\label{houston-texans}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for running back David Johnson*.

\textbf{Outlook:} The key move for the Texans (10-6) gets an asterisk
because, while Johnson is a very talented young running back who should
be a versatile option for quarterback Deshaun Watson, the Texans gave up
wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins in the trade. Hopkins is in the
conversation about the best wide receiver in the game, and his steady
presence gave the team the luxury of not relying on other receivers like
Will Fuller and Kenny Stills to have consistent success.

Watson is so good it seems that he can make anything work, and he and
Johnson could be a devastating combination. But it's hard to get
enthusiastic about a team that has a suspect defense and that traded
away a franchise icon. Especially so when it faces a brutal start to the
season, with the first six weeks including games against Kansas City,
Baltimore, Pittsburgh and Tennessee.

Image

After 224 starts for the Chargers, Philip Rivers has to hope a change of
scenery in Indianapolis can make everyone forget his struggles last
season.Credit...Michael Conroy/Associated Press

\hypertarget{indianapolis-colts}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Indianapolis
Colts}}{Indianapolis Colts}}\label{indianapolis-colts}}

\textbf{Key move:} Traded for defensive lineman DeForest Buckner.

\textbf{Outlook:} How much does quarterback Philip Rivers, 38, have left
in the tank? The Colts (7-9) are about to find out. The veteran passer
was all over the place last season for the Chargers, but the Colts
appear determined to have their offense controlled by running backs
Marlon Mack and Jonathan Taylor (or, more realistically, by left guard
Quenton Nelson). That creates a dream scenario for Rivers in which all
the team truly wants from him is leadership, the occasional deep floater
to T.Y. Hilton or Parris Campbell, and some creative plays underneath to
the third-down back, Nyheim Hines. Rivers seemingly could manage that
into his 50s.

Adding Buckner, fresh off a Super Bowl appearance with the 49ers, gives
the superstar linebacker Darius Leonard much-needed help and could be a
boon to linebacker Justin Houston, as Buckner tends to punch awfully big
holes in offensive lines.

\hypertarget{jacksonville-jaguars}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Jacksonville
Jaguars}}{Jacksonville Jaguars}}\label{jacksonville-jaguars}}

\textbf{Key move:} Cleaning up their salary cap sheet for 2021 or 2022.

\textbf{Outlook:} Gardner Minshew is a lovable scamp who is probably a
better quarterback than Nick Foles at this point in their careers. Does
that make the Jaguars (6-10) good?
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/sports/football/jacksonville-jaguars-salary-cap-fournette.html}{Nope.}
The subtraction of running back Leonard Fournette doesn't make the team
any worse --- which is a fairly strong indictment of Fournette --- and
wide receiver D.J. Chark has promise, so the Jaguars will score some
points and win some games. Not many, though.

Sadder is the dismantling of the team's defense. The Jaguars' remarkable
2017 season may have been something of a fluke, but it's hard to say
because just about every significant player from that defense has been
sent elsewhere, often under rushed and dramatic circumstances. The most
recent departures were Yannick Ngakoue and Calais Campbell, but the team
has also lost Marcell Dareus, Jalen Ramsey and Dante Fowler in recent
years, and no team could endure that type of exodus.

\hypertarget{afc-west-property-of-patrick-lavon-mahomes-ii}{%
\subsection{A.F.C. West: Property of Patrick Lavon Mahomes
II}\label{afc-west-property-of-patrick-lavon-mahomes-ii}}

Image

Clyde Edwards-Helaire was the only running back taken in the first round
of this year's draft. The move seemed brilliant for Kansas City when the
team's starter, Damien Williams, opted out of the
season.Credit...Charlie Neibergall/Associated Press

\hypertarget{kansas-city-chiefs}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Kansas City
Chiefs}}{Kansas City Chiefs}}\label{kansas-city-chiefs}}

\textbf{Key move:} Giving
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/sports/football/pat-mahomes-contract.html}{Mahomes
half a billion dollars}.

\textbf{Outlook:} Mahomes has already won the N.F.L.'s Most Valuable
Player Award, a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/03/sports/football/chiefs-super-bowl.html}{Super
Bowl} and the Super Bowl M.V.P. award. Now he is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/sports/football/patrick-mahomes-contract-guarantee.html}{theoretically
secured}as the face of the franchise for more than a decade. It's good
to be the Chiefs (12-4).

To help Mahomes thrive, Kansas City gave tight end Travis Kelce a huge
contract extension and made what appeared to be a questionable decision
by drafting running back Clyde Edwards-Helaire in the first round, only
to have that move look brilliant when the incumbent starter, Damien
Williams, opted out for the season. Wide receivers Tyreek Hill, Sammy
Watkins, Mecole Hardman and Demarcus Robinson will all probably spend a
lot of time in the end zone.

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus
Outbreak}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\hypertarget{sports-and-the-virus}{%
\paragraph{Sports and the Virus}\label{sports-and-the-virus}}

Updated Sept. 9, 2020

Here's what's happening as the world of sports slowly comes back to
life:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    September Saturdays at Penn State are usually the apex of a week of
    hype. Now, as at other college football destinations, the approach
    of autumn has been
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/penn-state-college-football-canceled.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{unusually
    quiet}~there.
  \item
    More than half the players who made the quarterfinals at the U.S.
    Open were not supposed to be there. It's a
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/sports/us-open-crowd.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{little
    bit easier}~when there are no fans, some say.
  \item
    In a pandemic,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/sports/ironman-tallinn-triathlon-pandemic.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_2\&context=storylines_keepup}{getting
    to a triathlon}~is as hard as finishing it. The first Ironman race
    since March, in Tallinn, Estonia, included travel restrictions,
    temperature checks, masked volunteers and medals handed over in
    bags.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The team's defense has taken its lumps, but it showed up when it counted
most in the Super Bowl, and with Chris Jones back to anchor the
defensive line, and safety Tyrann Mathieu roaming in the secondary,
there should be little fear of a drop-off.

\hypertarget{las-vegas-raiders}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Las Vegas
Raiders}}{Las Vegas Raiders}}\label{las-vegas-raiders}}

\textbf{Key move:} Drafting wide receiver Henry Ruggs III.

\textbf{Outlook:} It has been a rough re-entry to the N.F.L. for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/05/sports/football/antonio-brown-raiders.html}{Coach
Jon Gruden}, but he and General Manager Mike Mayock appear to be
building a team that shouldn't be a pushover in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/13/sports/football/oakland-raiders-las-vegas-stadium.html}{its
first season in the desert}.

Having bolstered one of the best offensive lines in football for several
seasons, the Raiders (7-9) now have the skill players to make use of all
that time that line provides. Running back Josh Jacobs is wildly
explosive, and quarterback Derek Carr has some terrific targets in tight
ends Darren Waller and Jason Witten, and wide receivers Henry Ruggs III
and Zay Jones.

The Raiders' defense may not have a lot of household names, but it has
strong players at each level, with the potential for a breakout year
from defensive end Maxx Crosby.

Image

Austin Ekeler rushed for 1,550 yards last season despite sharing duties
with Melvin Gordon. He could join Roger Craig, Marshall Faulk and
Christian McCaffrey as the only players with 1,000 rushing yards and
1,000 receiving yards in the same season.Credit...Kelvin Kuo/Associated
Press

\hypertarget{los-angeles-chargers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Los Angeles
Chargers}}{Los Angeles Chargers}}\label{los-angeles-chargers}}

\textbf{Key move:} Keeping quarterback Tyrod Taylor around to give
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/justin-herbert.html}{Justin
Herbert} time.

\textbf{Outlook:} There's not much that's recognizable for fans of a
team that said goodbye to a potential Hall of Famer quarterback (Philip
Rivers) and a former Pro Bowl running back (Melvin Gordon), while losing
one of its best defensive players, safety Derwin James, to a severe knee
injury. But then, there aren't many people who would ID themselves as
followers at this point.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/19/sports/football/if-the-chargers-score-and-no-ones-there-to-cheer-does-the-owner-care.html}{For
the few who do}, here are inklings of optimism for the Chargers (5-11).

Los Angeles used the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/23/sports/football/nfl-draft-live.html\#link-1f4f47de}{No.
6 draft pick on quarterback Justin Herbert}, and while he's probably not
ready yet, the team bought itself plenty of time by retaining Taylor,
who should have had a starting job in the first place. Along with the
versatile running back Austin Ekeler and wide receiver Mike Williams,
the offense has the potential to be far better than last year's.

The Chargers had a top-10 defense in each of the last two seasons, and
even without James they could very well make it three straight years.

\hypertarget{denver-broncos}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Denver
Broncos}}{Denver Broncos}}\label{denver-broncos}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for defensive tackle Jurrell Casey.

\textbf{Outlook:} The Broncos (7-9) appear to have settled on Drew Lock
at quarterback, and they have worked to build around him with a new
offensive coordinator, Pat Shurmur, and a fairly robust group of skill
players --- running backs Phillip Lindsay and Melvin Gordon, wide
receivers Courtland Sutton, Tim Patrick and Jerry Jeudy, and tight end
Noah Fant. If the team can patch together a decent offensive line, there
will be little excuse for Lock not to succeed, and that might take some
pressure off John Elway, the team's president, who has made some
questionable quarterback decisions in recent years.

The team's defense is not what it was a few years ago and
\href{https://twitter.com/RapSheet/status/1303712772140789762}{Von
Miller may be sidelined} for the start of the season. But stealing Casey
from the Titans should pay large dividends and the acquisition of
cornerback A.J. Bouye helps blunt the loss of Chris Harris Jr.

\hypertarget{nfc-east-where-9-7-is-enough}{%
\subsection{N.F.C. East: Where 9-7 Is
Enough}\label{nfc-east-where-9-7-is-enough}}

Image

Coach Mike McCarthy has a fairly simple directive: Don't waste the
primes of quarterback Dak Prescott and running back Ezekiel
Elliott.~Credit...LM Otero/Associated Press

\hypertarget{dallas-cowboys}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Dallas
Cowboys}}{Dallas Cowboys}}\label{dallas-cowboys}}

\textbf{Key move:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/06/sports/football/mike-mccarthy-jerry-jones-cowboys.html}{Hiring
Coach Mike McCarthy}.

\emph{\emph{Outlook}:}** If it felt as though the Cowboys (8-8)
consistently underperformed under Jason Garrett, it was because they
did. No team with quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/11/sports/football/cowboys-dak-prescott-can-handle-any-kind-of-pressure.html}{Dak
Prescott}, running back Ezekiel Elliott and wide receivers Amari Cooper
and Michael Gallup, all protected by a top-notch offensive line, should
ever finish 8-8. But that's exactly what they did, giving away what
should have been the easiest division title in N.F.C. East history.

In steps McCarthy, who may have worn out his welcome in Green Bay, but
is a safe bet to get a lot more out of this talented offense. He
retained Kellen Moore, last year's supposed wunderkind of an offensive
coordinator, and brought in Mike Nolan to revamp a defense that has
enough talent to get by.

Cooper has said he believes the offense, with the addition of the rookie
wide receiver CeeDee Lamb, could become the rare unit with three
1,000-yard receivers. Focusing on winning nine games might be a better
plan.

\hypertarget{philadelphia-eagles}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Philadelphia
Eagles}}{Philadelphia Eagles}}\label{philadelphia-eagles}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for cornerback Darius Slay.

\textbf{Outlook:} The Eagles (9-7) have had a wild ride the last few
seasons,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/04/sports/eagles-super-bowl-champions.html}{winning
a Super Bowl} with a backup quarterback, falling apart entirely the next
season, and then turning into a team that somehow felt like a plucky
upstart last season despite having a franchise quarterback and a top-10
defense. Even with that statistical roller coaster, the team has found
itself in the playoffs three years in a row, which is quite a feat.

On offense, the key is health. Keeping quarterback Carson Wentz on his
feet may be a bit easier with the veteran tackle Jason Peters moving to
guard to make way for Andre Dillard. And Miles Sanders seems like a
solution to the team's revolving door at running back.

On defense, Philadelphia dropped a ton of money on defensive tackle
Javon Hargrave, who will team with Fletcher Cox and Malik Jackson on a
ridiculously deep defensive line. With that group forcing quarterbacks
into countless unwise throws, the newly acquired Slay may find himself
looking like a defensive player of the year candidate.

Image

Dwayne Haskins (7) showed some promise as a rookie, but there will
undoubtedly be some fans looking for Alex Smith (11), cleared to play
after a devastating leg injury, to get time at quarterback.Credit...Alex
Brandon/Associated Press

\hypertarget{washington-football-team}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Washington Football
Team}}{Washington Football Team}}\label{washington-football-team}}

\textbf{Key move:} Retiring an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/sports/football/native-american-washington-name-change.html}{offensive
nickname and logo}.

\textbf{Outlook:} Sorting out the off-season drama for Washington (3-13)
would take far more space than is available here, but rest assured:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/sports/football/dan-snyder-washington-football-ownership.html}{It's
been messy}.

Talking about strictly about on-the-field matters, however, the team
should have an upward trajectory, with the caveat that it's easy to move
up when you're at the absolute bottom. Coach
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/sports/football/washington-football-ron-rivera-cancer.html}{Ron
Rivera} has proved he can succeed in the N.F.L., but for now his
emphasis needs to be on building a new culture.

The quarterback position should be fairly interesting, as second-year
starter Dwayne Haskins has some ability and also some troubles staying
healthy. The improbable return of Alex Smith from
\href{https://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/29671320/washington-qb-alex-smith-cleared-football-activity-team}{a
horrific leg injury} is worthy of Hollywood consideration, but the
chances that he unseats Haskins, absent an injury to the younger player,
are remote. At least there are people to choose from. At running back,
the release of both Derrius Guice and Adrian Peterson has left the
cupboard almost entirely bare.

The defense, now led by Jack Del Rio, will get a big boost from the
rookie defensive end Chase Young. But this team is several good players
away from relevance.

\hypertarget{giants}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Giants}}{Giants}}\label{giants}}

\textbf{Key move:} Presumably remembering what they have in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/18/sports/football/saquon-barkley-return-giants.html}{Saquon
Barkley}.

\textbf{Outlook:} Everyone got very excited when quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/29/sports/football/daniel-jones-giants-draft-haskins.html}{Daniel
Jones won his first two starts} last year (4-12). He then looked a lot
like an
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/07/sports/football/daniel-jones-eli-manning-giants-quarterback.html}{overwhelmed
rookie} out of Duke, going 1-9 the rest of the way.

To fix an offense that seemed to make very little use its ultra-talented
running back, or of the promising tight end Evan Engram, the Giants
tapped New England's wide receivers coach,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/07/sports/football/joe-judge-giants.html}{Joe
Judge, as head coach} and brought in Jason Garrett as offensive
coordinator. Both managed to engender quite a bit of enthusiasm despite
having come from jobs where the units they managed dramatically
underwhelmed.

The offense could show some serious improvement, but the team's defense
is so bad that it won't matter.

\hypertarget{nfc-north-the-packers-and-friends}{%
\subsection{N.F.C. North: The Packers and
Friends}\label{nfc-north-the-packers-and-friends}}

Image

This was a remarkably familiar sight for the Packers last season, as
running back Aaron Jones scored 19 touchdowns during the regular season
and four more during the playoffs.Credit...Hannah Foslien/Getty Images

\hypertarget{green-bay-packers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Green Bay
Packers}}{Green Bay Packers}}\label{green-bay-packers}}

\textbf{Key move:} Drafting quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/jordan-love.html}{Jordan
Love}.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/sports/football/nfl-quarterback-controversies.html}{Don't
tell Aaron Rodgers.})

\textbf{Outlook:} You can't exactly fake a 13-3 record, but the Packers
certainly never felt like a top contender last season. Coach Matt
LaFleur was supposedly brought in to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/21/sports/football/aaron-rodgers-packers-coach.html}{unlock
the remaining potential in Rodgers's golden arm}, but instead LaFleur
seemed to fall in love with running the ball, leaving Rodgers with
statistics fairly similar to those from the 2018 season, which got Coach
Mike McCarthy fired.

In all, Green Bay was a fairly middling team in all facets of the game,
but finished tied for the second best record in the N.F.L. thanks to a
soft schedule and some luck.

With Rodgers healthy, somewhere between 10 and 13 wins feels like a
given, but if the Packers want to avoid having things fall apart
entirely whenever he departs (think Troy Aikman or Steve Young) they
need to start thinking about what comes after. Drafting a potential star
in Love was the right call, even if it worsened an already bad
relationship between Rodgers and the team. Maybe Rodgers, who tends to
thrive while playing with a chip on his shoulder, can really stick it to
his bosses by throwing 35 touchdown passes this season.

\hypertarget{minnesota-vikings}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Minnesota
Vikings}}{Minnesota Vikings}}\label{minnesota-vikings}}

\textbf{Key move:} The team kept a few of its good players.

\textbf{Outlook:} Wide receiver Stefon Diggs is gone. So are Linval
Joseph, Everson Griffen, Xavier Rhodes and Trae Waynes, all defensive
stalwarts for the Vikings (10-6). Michael Pierce, who was brought in to
replace Joseph, opted out of this season. Plenty of teams go through
periods of turnover, but a playoff team jettisoning a solid portion of
the players anyone has heard of is a little extreme.

Coach Mike Zimmer probably deserves some leeway with all of the
defensive movement, since he has consistently put a strong product on
the field. And embracing a youth movement is probably better than
standing pat just for continuity's sake.

On offense, however, it's hard to justify the team letting things go so
wrong with Diggs, who was responsible for
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/15/sports/vikings-saints-stefon-diggs-marcus-williams.html}{one
of the most memorable moments in franchise history}. A team and player
souring on each other happens, but breaking up the pairing of Diggs and
Adam Thielen makes Minnesota's offense worse.

Image

Jamie Collins, a linebacker with star potential, will be reunited with
Coach Matt Patricia, who was the Patriots' defensive coordinator at the
beginning of his career.~Credit...Nick Wass/Associated Press

\hypertarget{detroit-lions}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Detroit
Lions}}{Detroit Lions}}\label{detroit-lions}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing linebacker Jamie Collins.

\textbf{Outlook:} Things have not been pretty over the last two seasons
for Coach Matt Patricia, but at least in Collins he has someone with
whom he can chat about happier days in New England.

Should quarterback Matthew Stafford get back to his typically stellar
health, he will throw for a lot of yards. They sometimes feel like empty
calories, but there will be
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/04/sports/drew-brees-passing-yards.html}{a
lot of them}. If history is any indication, the Lions (3-12-1) will have
a hard time deciding on a primary running back between Kerryon Johnson
and the rookie D'Andre Swift, but if they can ever find some balance for
their offense it might help things considerably.

On defense, the guys you've heard of (Darius Slay, Snacks Harrison,
etc.) are gone, replaced by Collins and a few other acquisitions who
might be a better fit for Patricia's scheme.

It wouldn't be ridiculous to suggest the team could improve, but the
Lions are a hard team to believe in.

\hypertarget{chicago-bears}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Chicago
Bears}}{Chicago Bears}}\label{chicago-bears}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/sports/football/nfl-quarterback-controversies.html}{Nick
Foles}.

\textbf{Outlook:} Hoping that the veteran backup quarterback who once
stepped in for an injured No. 2 draft pick and won a Super Bowl could do
the same thing for your team had big ``buying a lottery ticket at the
same store that sold a recent jackpot'' energy. But Nick Foles, as
flawed as he can be, seemed like an upgrade over Mitchell Trubisky, and
the Bears (8-8), led by their terrific defense, didn't need greatness
from their quarterback. They needed competence.

Somehow, some way, Trubisky appears to have beaten out Foles for the
starting job. So the Bears will now pay more than \$20 million for a
backup, while keeping the same bad quarterback.

That defense, though, is still special. It was not nearly as
opportunistic last season as it had been in recent years, but with stars
like Khalil Mack, Akiem Hicks and Eddie Jackson, the potential for
explosiveness is there if the offense finds a way to manage its end of
the bargain.

\hypertarget{nfc-south-assisted-living-for-aging-quarterbacks}{%
\subsection{N.F.C. South: Assisted Living for Aging
Quarterbacks}\label{nfc-south-assisted-living-for-aging-quarterbacks}}

Image

The Saints already had the game's most productive wide receiver in
Michael Thomas, and now Thomas will have some serious help from the
veteran Emmanuel Sanders, left.Credit...Pool photo by David Grunfeld

\hypertarget{new-orleans-saints}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{New Orleans
Saints}}{New Orleans Saints}}\label{new-orleans-saints}}

\textbf{Key move:} Not having Drew Brees retire.

\textbf{Outlook:} Few teams can match the Saints' (13-3) run over the
last few regular seasons, and none can match their postseason
heartbreak. At least last season's wild-card round defeat against
Minnesota was just a plain old overtime upset and didn't come with the
enhanced drama of their losses to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/14/sports/vikings-stefon-diggs-saints.html}{Vikings
in the 2017 season's playoffs} and to the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/20/sports/saints-rams-call-officials.html}{Rams
in the following year's playoffs}.

The chance to get another season out of Brees at quarterback, though, is
quite a gift. While
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/21/sports/football/backup-quarterback-teddy-bridgewater-mahomes.html}{Teddy
Bridgewater did well as an injury fill-in}, he's gone now, and the team
will have a year to figure out if Jameis Winston or Taysom Hill is their
future. That the team has complemented wide receiver Michael Thomas with
the veteran Emmanuel Sanders should make life easy for whoever is under
center.

As for the team's defense, there has been steady improvement over the
last few years, and a top-10 showing this season is not out of the realm
of possibility.

\hypertarget{tampa-bay-buccaneers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Tampa Bay
Buccaneers}}{Tampa Bay Buccaneers}}\label{tampa-bay-buccaneers}}

\textbf{Key move:} There were several.

\textbf{Outlook:} To complement the N.F.L.'s best run defense, the
Buccaneers (7-9) added a six-time
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/sports/football/tom-brady-tampa-bay-buccaneers.html}{Super
Bowl-winning quarterback}, a four-time All-Pro tight end and a
25-year-old running back who has rushed for more than 1,000 yards in two
of his first three seasons. Should we see red flags in the fact that the
quarterback (Tom Brady) is 43, the tight end
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/21/sports/football/rob-gronkowski-tom-brady-buccaneers-patriots.html}{Rob
Gronkowski}) was retired last season and the running back (Leonard
Fournette) was released by the awful Jaguars? Well, that's no fun!

Brady, to be clear, wasn't very good last year. He was just a season
removed from winning a Super Bowl and had previously seemed absolutely
ageless, but the wheels came off and he looked his age. Will he throw 30
interceptions, as Jameis Winston did last season? No. Will he throw for
33 touchdowns, as Winston did? Probably not.

Brady has two of the best wide receivers in the game, and the parallel
to Joe Montana --- who got a new home in Kansas City at the end of his
career --- is there. And hey, everything is more
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/sports/football/rob-gronkowski-tom-brady.html}{fun
when Gronk is around}. But the range of possibilities for how this could
turn out is wide.

Image

Among other issues, the Falcons struggled to run the ball last season.
If Todd Gurley is healthy, that shouldn't be a problem.Credit...Pool
photo by Curtis Compton

\hypertarget{atlanta-falcons}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Atlanta
Falcons}}{Atlanta Falcons}}\label{atlanta-falcons}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing running back Todd Gurley.

\textbf{Outlook:} Quarterback Matt Ryan is a model of consistency,
churning out 4,000 passing yards and 25-plus touchdowns just about every
season regardless of who is around him. He goes into this season with
potentially the most talented group of skill players he has ever had, as
wide receivers Julio Jones and Calvin Ridley should have plenty of help
from tight end Hayden Hurst and running back Todd Gurley. Gurley's
health is obviously the biggest wild card for the Falcons (7-9), but if
he can suit up for 12 or more games, Atlanta could be very dangerous on
that side of the ball.

The team's defense is not without talent, but it doesn't have much of an
identity, either. Considering the team's offensive ability, turning the
defense into the league's 16th or 17th best unit would be enough for
success.

\hypertarget{carolina-panthers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Carolina
Panthers}}{Carolina Panthers}}\label{carolina-panthers}}

\textbf{Key move:} Signing quarterback Teddy Bridgewater.

\textbf{Outlook:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/sports/football/why-was-ron-rivera-fired.html}{Firing
Coach Ron Rivera} felt premature, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/24/sports/football/cam-newton-panthers-injury-release.html}{giving
up on quarterback Cam Newton} was rough. But the Panthers (5-11) just
might show some serious improvement with Bridgewater guiding an offense
that has a do-everything star in Christian McCaffrey and a pair of
legitimate wide receivers in D.J. Moore and Robby Anderson. There is
bust potential as well, with a lack of depth making any injury
devastating, but a repeat of last season's struggles seems unlikely.

The Carolina defense, on the other hand, was dealt a crushing blow with
the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/15/sports/football/luke-kuechly-concussions-retire.html}{early
retirement of linebacker Luke Kuechly,} the kind of player whose
leadership and talent are impossible to replace.

\hypertarget{nfc-west-the-best-division-in-football}{%
\subsection{N.F.C. West: The Best Division in
Football}\label{nfc-west-the-best-division-in-football}}

Image

His former defensive coordinator worried that Jamal Adams might be bored
in Seattle's defensive scheme, but so far the All-Pro safety just seems
happy not to be a Jet.Credit...Ted S. Warren/Associated Press

\hypertarget{seattle-seahawks}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Seattle
Seahawks}}{Seattle Seahawks}}\label{seattle-seahawks}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for safety Jamal Adams.

\textbf{Outlook:} The margin between the Seahawks (11-5) and the 49ers
last season was thinner than their records would suggest, and with a few
breaks it would have been easy to envision Seattle reaching the Super
Bowl. Now the Seahawks have added safety Jamal Adams, one of the most
talented young defensive players in the N.F.L., and may give the N.F.C.
West its third conference champion in three years.

On offense, quarterback
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/04/sports/football/russell-wilson-nfl-playoffs-2019.html}{Russell
Wilson} is the star of the show, at least when
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/09/sports/football/seattle-seahawks-pete-carroll.html}{Coach
Pete Carroll} lets him have some fun. Wilson will get the ball to Tyler
Lockett early and often, though D.K. Metcalf has the makings of a
superstar. With the addition of tight end Greg Olsen and some serious
depth at running back, in the form of Chris Carson and backup Carlos
Hyde, Seattle has an offense that should terrify just about anyone.

On defense, the loss of end Jadeveon Clowney will be felt, but Adams is
so good that he should make everyone around him seem better.

\hypertarget{san-francisco-49ers}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{San Francisco
49ers}}{San Francisco 49ers}}\label{san-francisco-49ers}}

\textbf{Key move:} Trading for left tackle Trent Williams.

\textbf{Outlook:} If a
\href{https://sports.yahoo.com/emmanuel-sanders-like-most-49-ers-fans-still-thinks-about-that-overthrown-jimmy-g-pass-late-in-super-bowl-loss-223945303.html}{third-down
pass to Emmanuel Sanders} had hit its mark in the fourth quarter, the
49ers (13-3) would probably have been Super Bowl champions. But
quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo's throw sailed a bit too long, and that gave
Patrick Mahomes all the room he needed to seal a comeback victory.

Super Bowl hangovers are typical, and the 49ers may very well experience
one early in the season thanks to injuries to key players like center
Weston Richburg and wide receiver Deebo Samuel. But the team did an
excellent job addressing the small amount of turnover it had, replacing
defensive lineman DeForest Buckner with Javon Kinlaw, wide receiver
Emmanuel Sanders with Brandon Aiyuk and, most important, left tackle Joe
Staley with the future Hall of Famer Trent Williams.

The team's
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/11/sports/football/49ers-nick-bosa.html}{biggest
strength was Nick Bosa} and a fabulously deep defensive line, so
Kinlaw's needing some time to learn shouldn't be an issue. And the
team's offense should be bolstered by Garoppolo's being closer to full
speed after a long recovery from an A.C.L. tear in 2018. With tight end
George Kittle around, just about anything is possible.

Image

Over their careers, the wide receivers in this photo (DeAndre Hopkins
and Larry Fitzgerald) have combined for 2,010 receptions, 25,685 yards
and 174 touchdowns.~Credit...Christian Petersen/Getty Images

\hypertarget{arizona-cardinals}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Arizona
Cardinals}}{Arizona Cardinals}}\label{arizona-cardinals}}

\textbf{Key move:} Traded for wide receiver DeAndre Hopkins.

\textbf{Outlook:} Kyler Murray may fit inside Jared Goff's pocket, but
Arizona's teeny-tiny quarterback out of Oklahoma is a lot of fun to
watch. He seemed to be just barely scratching at his potential in his
rookie season for the Cardinals (5-10-1), and now can choose between
Larry Fitzgerald and Hopkins on every play.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/08/13/sports/air-raid-kliff-kingsbury-kyler-murray.html}{Coach
Kliff Kingsbury} should have a lot of fun with that.

The Cardinals worked to address a depth issue on defense by focusing
their draft on that side of the ball, and a full season of cornerback
Patrick Peterson could go a long way toward getting the unit closer to
respectable.

That may not be enough to challenge Seattle or San Francisco, but the
Rams have to take a hard look at Arizona and wonder if all three teams
in the division have surpassed them.

\hypertarget{los-angeles-rams}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{Los Angeles
Rams}}{Los Angeles Rams}}\label{los-angeles-rams}}

\textbf{Key move:} Drafting running back Cam Akers.

\textbf{Outlook:} Two years ago the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/02/sports/marcus-peters-rams.html}{Rams
(9-7) were the toast of the N.F.L.}, celebrated as the league's future.
Every team wanted an offense just like theirs and a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/sports/sean-mcvay-los-angeles-rams-super-bowl-liii.html}{coach
just as young}and brash. Last year the Rams were 9-7 and missed the
playoffs. This year they might be the worst team in their division. A
book should probably be written about how quickly they were overtaken.

That isn't to say that they will be all that bad. Quarterback Jared Goff
isn't as dynamic as the game's top signal-callers, but he's plenty
productive. The team has some talented skill players on offense, and on
defense Los Angeles still has two of the best in the game --- tackle
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/sports/football/aaron-donald-rams.html}{Aaron
Donald} and cornerback Jalen Ramsey.

But while the Rams were standing pat and shedding expensive players, the
49ers and the Seahawks were rebuilding into powerhouses and the
Cardinals were sneaking up as a legitimate challenger. If the Rams can't
rebound some this season, the blow to Coach Sean McVay's reputation
could be enormous.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
