Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/realestate}{Real Estate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/realestate}{Real Estate}\textbar{}Robby Browne, Real
Estate Player and Philanthropist, Dies at 72

\url{https://nyti.ms/3a6Kb2r}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

those we've lost

\hypertarget{robby-browne-real-estate-player-and-philanthropist-dies-at-72}{%
\section{Robby Browne, Real Estate Player and Philanthropist, Dies at
72}\label{robby-browne-real-estate-player-and-philanthropist-dies-at-72}}

As a top agent in New York City, he socialized with celebrities and the
business elite. He also contributed to numerous AIDS- and gay-related
charities.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/16/obituaries/14Browne1/merlin_56924242_19ed131f-e745-4c91-96e9-87552eb453e4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jacob-bernstein}{Jacob Bernstein}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published April 14, 2020Updated April 16, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{This obituary is part of a series about}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/series/people-who-have-died-of-the-coronavirus}{\emph{people
who have died in the coronavirus pandemic}}\emph{.}

In a city filled with real estate V.I.P.'s, Robby Browne was a cut
above.

Hillary Clinton came to his Bridgehampton home for lunch. Martina
Navratilova swam in his pool. Uma Thurman went to his Halloween party,
where he would dress up as Amal Clooney and Kellyanne Conway.

But on Saturday night, after a three-and-a-half year struggle with
multiple myeloma and a two-week bout with the new coronavirus, Mr.
Browne died at his Central Park West apartment, according to Jason
Moore, a close friend and movie director. He was 72.

One of Mr. Browne's biggest real estate deals took place in 2003, when
he orchestrated the
\$\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2004/11/21/realestate/time-warner-center-draws-a-diverse-global-group.html}{43
million sale of a penthouse apartment} at the Time Warner Center. The
buyer was David Martinez, the founder of Fintech, a financial advisory
firm, and the price was among the highest ever for a Manhattan
residence.

Mr. Browne wasn't arrogant about his success. He entered the real estate
business in 1986 after numerous vocational false starts, and his
greatest skill as a salesman was managing not to come off like one.

The youngest of four children, Robert Mallory Browne was born on March
11, 1948, in Louisville, Ky. His father, William Kennedy Browne,
graduated from Phillips Academy in Massachusetts and Yale University and
was said to work in business. His mother, Elizabeth Willett Browne, went
from waltzing with society swans to selling mansions to them. Mr. Browne
left no immediate survivors.

At 13, he, too, was shipped off to Phillips Academy. After graduation,
he went to Princeton University, where he distinguished himself as a
partyer. ``Robby used to say he was the worst student on campus,'' his
longtime friend \href{https://fineacts.co/colleen-keegan}{Colleen
Keegan} said. ``He was supposed to graduate in '69, but it took him
until '71.''

With a bachelor's in art history, Mr. Browne moved to Washington, where
he sold travel packages to prep school students and Ivy Leaguers for an
agency called Cowan Ladd Tours. He sold so many tour packages that the
firm changed its name to Browne Ladd. Washington was where he went to
his first gay bar, Lost \& Found, as he inched his way out of the
closet.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/04/14/obituaries/14browne3/merlin_171561000_3fb14052-d247-4cab-8136-7034af62329d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Next he went to Harvard Business School and, despite poor attendance,
got his M.B.A. in 1978. He moved to New York City and found a kind of
home at Studio 54 while he figured what he wanted to do with his life.
He considered investment banking but flunked the interview with a bank
representative.

``He said, `Well if you don't know what we do at the bank, you're not
the kind of person we want,''' Mr. Browne said in a 27-minute
documentary made about him in 2019 by Jeff Dupre, a close friend and
Emmy-winning filmmaker. ``I said, `Well, if you can't tell me what you
do at the bank, then that's not a place I want to work.'''

After that, he got it into his head that he might want to become a
doctor, so he enrolled at St. George's University School of Medicine, a
so-called
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/08/03/education/edlife/second-chance-med-school.html}{second
chance med school} on the island of Grenada. His roommates, Mr. Moore
said, were a nun and an ex-convict. They got their degrees. He did not.

Mr. Browne began in real-estate at Halstead, focusing on Central Park
West. Among his first deals was selling an apartment to Ian Schrager,
one of Studio 54's owners, who had recently been released
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/18/nyregion/obama-pardons-ian-schrager.html}{from
prison for tax evasion}.

In subsequent years, the apartments that Mr. Browne sold got bigger and
his clients glitzier --- among them, Ms. Thurman, Alec Baldwin, Denzel
Washington and Mariska Hargitay.

In 2002, Mr. Browne went to the Corcoran Group, where he won numerous
awards. In an interview on Fox 5 New York around that time, Mr. Browne
said he had gotten ``hooked'' into real estate ``because I had such a
passion for architecture.'' But colleagues said his real love was being
around people.

He lived according to Gore Vidal's principle that no one should ever
turn down the opportunity to go on television or have sex. He knew the
interiors of many Central Park West co-op buildings because he had
visited them (often after going to gay clubs like the Roxy, the Saint
and the Sound Factory).

Mr. Browne was involved with numerous AIDS- and gay-related charities
including the Gay Men's Health Crisis (his brother, Roscoe, died of AIDS
in 1985), Glaad (where he was a board member) and Sage, which advocates
for L.G.B.T. elders.

He was perhaps best known for Toys for Tots, which he started in his
apartment in 1985 to provide toys for underprivileged children. It grew
to become a 2,500-person affair at Chelsea Piers, and former Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg was a regular. (It later changed its name
``\href{https://www.nydailynews.com/entertainment/gossip/mayor-bloomberg-shows-playful-side-annual-toy-party-jokes-closets-marriage-equality-article-1.469987}{Toy
Party}'' to avoid confusion with the well-known charity run by the
Marines).

Image

Michael R. Bloomberg at Mr. Browne's Toys Party fund-raiser at Chelsea
Piers in 2018.Credit...Jared Siskin/Patrick McMullan, via Getty Images

``I always saw Robbie as sort of a unicorn,'' said Corey Johnson, the
speaker of the New York City Council. ``He was like a Technicolor dream
coat, this omnipresent person who everyone loved and got along with. I
met him when I was 20 years old. I wasn't in politics. I didn't have any
money. I didn't know anyone, and he was sweet and kind and invited me to
things. I was enamored of his whole aura.''

Mr. Browne learned he had multiple myeloma in 2016. Chemotherapy,
radiation and a stem cell transplant failed to work. Last fall, he
underwent experimental immunology treatment. When that, too, failed he
returned to radiation.

Friends grew concerned as the coronavirus epidemic worsened. His
hospital visits put him at risk. Two weeks ago, Mr. Browne began
experiencing flulike symptoms. The first test for Covid-19 came back
negative; the second one was positive.

With his health deteriorating, friends suggested that he go to the
hospital, but he thought he would be wasting a ventilator. He was unable
to hire a hospice worker, so a doctor he had mentored, Deacon Farrell,
arrived to care for him.

Mr. Dupre, who served as his health care proxy, worked to get Mr.
Browne's affairs in order while fighting off his own coronavirus
infection. He had put together the documentary film about him, titled
simply ``Robby,'' last year, when he realized that Mr. Browne, ill with
cancer, might not make it.

At the end of the film, Mr. Browne is driving his azure-colored vintage
Chrysler on an empty road in the Hamptons. It's the end of a glorious
fall day, the top is down, his Labrador dog at his side. The camera pans
up to the sky as Mr. Browne shares his philosophy of life.

``It's so hard to find one's way,'' he said. ``So hard. And I'm a free
spirit. For me, it's been light and love and peace. I want people to
live and be proud of who they are because there's not much time. We're
all here. So let's have fun.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/obituaries/people-died-coronavirus-obituaries.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=covid_obits_promo}{}

\hypertarget{those-weve-lost}{%
\section{Those We've Lost}\label{those-weve-lost}}

The coronavirus pandemic has taken an incalculable death toll. This
series is designed to put names and faces to the numbers.

Read more

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Pedro/30Pedro-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}{%
\section{Bernaldina José Pedro}\label{bernaldina-josuxe9-pedro}}

d. Boa Vista, Brazil

Leader among the Indigenous Macuxi

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Swing/merlin_175167783_8913bc90-0d64-43f3-a655-1bb1bf1601c9-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{john-eric-swing}{%
\section{John Eric Swing}\label{john-eric-swing}}

d. Fountain Valley, Calif.

Champion of Filipino-Americans

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/27/obituaries/27Victor/merlin_175001436_38b11f8e-227a-4e2c-9821-7618af9b2524-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{victor-victor}{%
\section{Victor Victor}\label{victor-victor}}

d. Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic

Beloved musician of the Dominican Republic

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/obituaries/31Negron/merlin_175160169_516322ae-fd23-4969-b6b2-193ced371105-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}{%
\section{Dr. Eddie Negrón}\label{dr-eddie-negruxf3n}}

d. Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

Internist on Florida's Emerald Coast

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/obituaries/30Dobson/merlin_175115928_f6b9271c-8f05-4fe1-a38a-5ca4a58f8935-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{dobby-dobson}{%
\section{Dobby Dobson}\label{dobby-dobson}}

d. Coral Springs, Fla.

Jamaican singer and songwriter

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/obituaries/28Gonzalez/merlin_175002771_beb57888-3951-409a-ae13-03a94b2e962e-square640.jpg}

\hypertarget{waldemar-gonzalez}{%
\section{Waldemar Gonzalez}\label{waldemar-gonzalez}}

d. White Plains, N.Y.

Teacher and social worker

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
