Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Administration to Phase Out
Coronavirus Task Force

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ywf4Rk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f0e30-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f0e31-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f3540-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f3541-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f3542-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7d5f3543-f292-11ea-84d9-09ec1c57291a\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{administration-to-phase-out-coronavirus-task-force}{%
\section{Administration to Phase Out Coronavirus Task
Force}\label{administration-to-phase-out-coronavirus-task-force}}

The group had provided President Trump a backdrop for his daily
briefings while working to coordinate the government response to the
pandemic.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/05/05/us/politics/05dc-virus-taskforce/merlin_171168411_ded4b4d1-7ed5-406f-9378-1f428abb489f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/07/23/reader-center/author-noah-weiland/author-noah-weiland-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-david-e-sanger/author-david-e-sanger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/noah-weiland}{Noah
Weiland},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/david-e-sanger}{David E.
Sanger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 5, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Despite growing evidence that the pandemic is still
raging, administration officials said on Tuesday that they had made so
much progress in bringing it under control that they planned to wind
down the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/us/politics/coronavirus-task-force-trump.html}{coronavirus
task force} in the coming weeks and focus the White House on restarting
the economy.

Vice President Mike Pence, who has led the task force for two months,
said it would probably wrap up its work around the end of the May, and
shift management of the public health response back to the federal
agencies whose work it was created to coordinate.

Other administration officials said that under plans still in
discussion, the White House would consult with medical experts on a more
informal basis and that Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law and
senior adviser, would help oversee a group pushing for progress in
developing a vaccine and treatments for the virus.

``It really is all a reflection of the tremendous progress we've made as
a country,'' Mr. Pence told reporters at the White House.

His comments came a day after the revelation of new estimates that
suggest deaths from the coronavirus, now above 70,000,
\href{https://covid19.healthdata.org/united-states-of-america}{could
double by early August}, and that infection rates may rise sharply as
businesses reopen. While the number of new cases logged daily in the New
York City area is declining,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-deaths-cases-united-states.html}{new
cases continue to grow} across the rest of the United States.

With President Trump facing a tough re-election battle, the White House
appears intent on putting a response to the daily death toll more toward
the background as it emphasizes efforts at a return to economic and job
growth. The president's advisers have repeatedly tried to place the
responsibility for testing and decisions about reopening on individual
states.

The task force spent some of its time preparing talking points for Mr.
Trump, who took over its public briefings, often turning them into
lengthy opportunities to air grievances, praise his own handling of the
crisis and offer up his own prescriptions.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T11:21:23.828Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-70cea8bb}{As
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet a vaccine, one company pauses its
  trials for a safety review.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780eaa2f}{Britain
  is expected to ban gatherings of more than six people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-11cec4c0}{Quarantine
  breakdowns at colleges in the U.S. are leaving some at risk.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

There were signals in recent days of the task force's impending demise:
The panel did not meet on Saturday, as it typically does, and canceled a
meeting on Monday. And the president has stopped linking his news
briefings to the task force's meetings and no longer routinely arrays
task force members around him in his public appearances, a change that
came swiftly after he mused one day about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/24/us/politics/trump-inject-disinfectant-bleach-coronavirus.html}{the
possibility of injecting disinfectants} to kill the virus.

Members of the coronavirus task force, including Dr. Deborah L. Birx,
the White House's coronavirus response coordinator, had to urge
Americans not to take those steps. And they often served as a public
check on Mr. Trump's questionable or false statements, cautioning about
promises of a quick vaccine or
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/05/us/politics/trump-hydroxychloroquine-coronavirus.html}{the
effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine}, a drug
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/22/business/media/virus-fox-news-hydroxychloroquine.html}{promoted
by the president}.

While the task force's advice has sometimes been swept aside by Mr.
Trump and the guidelines it produced for states to reopen ignored by
some of them, the group was a comforting symbol for people scared about
the virus's spread and looking for a sign the White House was taking it
seriously. People closely monitored which members attended, noting any
time Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, a leading infectious disease expert, was
absent. The decision to phase out the task force has prompted new
questions about whether the administration will be adequately organized
to address the complex, life-or-death decisions related to the virus and
give sufficient voice to scientists and public health experts in making
policy.

``We will have something in a different form,'' Mr. Trump told reporters
on Tuesday during a trip to Arizona.

Asked why now was the right time to wind down the task force, he
replied, ``Because we can't keep our country closed for the next five
years.''

If there is a recurrence of cases in the fall, he said, ``we're going to
put the flame out.''

White House officials said that medical officials like Dr. Birx would
still be advising the president and be available to answer reporters'
questions.

Still, the change means a growing role for Mr. Kushner, who is looking
for a czarlike appointee to oversee the development of a vaccine and
therapeutic treatments, as well as for top economic officials like
Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and the White House advisers
Larry Kudlow and Kevin Hassett.

Since it was formed in January, the task force has been the scene of
bureaucratic and policy battling, its influence only as great as Mr.
Trump's episodic willingness to accept its advice.

Its priorities and configuration often reflected the most immediate
circumstances, starting with quarantines for passengers of cruise ships
and repatriated Americans in late January and early February. But the
group spent little time managing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/28/us/testing-coronavirus-pandemic.html}{the
testing of Americans for the virus}, a problem the administration still
has not fully resolved.

It was initially overseen by Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health
and human services, before he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/26/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-cdc.html}{cast
aside for Mr. Pence}. Its influence peaked in March, when Dr. Birx led
other members in persuading the president to urge the stay-at-home and
social-distancing orders that have averted even higher death tolls, but
at a huge cost to the economy.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

From the task force's inception, there have been tensions between
economic advisers and some of Mr. Trump's health and national security
officials over the right balance between keeping the nation locked down
to minimize illness and death and the devastation from a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/30/business/economy/coronavirus-unemployment-claims.html}{historic
surge in joblessness}.

In recent weeks, one official said, economic advisers, including Mr.
Mnuchin, have had an increasingly prominent role in discussions of
public health matters. To critics, Mr. Trump's promotion of economic
recovery reflects the White House's impatience with the caution that top
health officials have urged for months as the virus's death toll has
climbed rapidly.

At the same time, top White House officials have moved much of the
coordination of federal resources away from the official task force. A
group led by Mr. Kushner has been functioning as something of a shadow
task force since early March. Among other issues, Mr. Kushner has told
people he is helping oversee the vaccine development process, and he has
been overseeing the expansion of testing.

``The task force has been hampered by inconsistent messaging,'' said Dr.
Joshua M. Sharfstein, a former top F.D.A. official who
\href{https://www.jhsph.edu/courses/course/28512/2019/300.650.01/crisis-and-response-in-public-health-policy-and-pr}{teaches
on public health crises} at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public
Health. ``There were too many times when what the scientists said and
what the president said were at odds.''

At various moments, different splinter groups separate from the task
force have met elsewhere in the White House, including the one led by
Mr. Kushner, which focused on testing and then supplies of personal
protective equipment and ventilators. Another has been led by Joe
Grogan, the chief of the White House Domestic Policy Council who plans
to leave his post this month.

That group, composed mostly of top health officials, gathers in the West
Wing's Roosevelt Room to organize and script discussion for the larger
task force meeting that occurs directly after it, one senior
administration official said. Another group, which consists solely of
top health officials with medical degrees, meets less regularly in
person and by phone.

The news of the task force's potential disbandment was not met with
strong resistance from medical officials in the group, according to
senior administration officials. In recent months, top health officials
had become wary of the amount of time task force obligations were
taking, including trips to and from the White House, which is far from
the headquarters of agencies such as the National Institutes of Health,
where a task force meeting was scheduled to take place on Tuesday before
it was moved to the White House, one official said.

Dr. Fauci described the meetings last week as the place where health
officials could spend 90 minutes or so examining data about new
infections and deaths, the effectiveness of potential treatments and the
surging of resources to new hot spots.

``Everyone understands the task force and refers to it as the
coordinating body, where policies came out, messaging came out,
guidelines were centralized from this one body,'' said Dr. Leana S. Wen,
an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington
University. ``We need to have a national coordinating body that has the
ear of the president and is able to direct the entire federal
government.''

Noah Weiland and David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and Maggie
Haberman from New York.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
