Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts}{Arts}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts}{Arts}\textbar{}Why Animal Crossing Is the Game for
the Coronavirus Moment

\url{https://nyti.ms/2JHOWFb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/28/books/time-for-a-literary-road-trip.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Take:
  A Literary Road Trip}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/magazine/bored-with-your-home-cooking-some-smoky-eggplant-will-fix-that.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cook:
  Smoky Eggplant}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/travel/moose-michigan-isle-royale.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Look
  Out: For Moose}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Obsessions}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{why-animal-crossing-is-the-game-for-the-coronavirus-moment}{%
\section{Why Animal Crossing Is the Game for the Coronavirus
Moment}\label{why-animal-crossing-is-the-game-for-the-coronavirus-moment}}

With the world in the grip of a pandemic, the wildly popular game is a
conveniently timed piece of whimsy, particularly for millennials.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/07/arts/07gaming-animalcrossing1/07gaming-animalcrossing1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Imad Khan

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Imagine escaping to an island paradise where bags of money fall out of
trees and a talking raccoon can approve you for a mortgage.

With the world in the grip of a pandemic, that's exactly the sort of
escape that has captivated so many --- not in their fantasies, but in
the world of Animal Crossing: New Horizons. It's the latest in a series
that's been around since 2001, but New Horizons is the first
built-from-the-ground-up console release in 19 years. It's also a
conveniently timed piece of whimsy for gamers --- and has become a
phenomenon.

In Animal Crossing, players take on the role of a lone human on an
island filled with pudgy anthropomorphic animals. Players are tasked
with building a thriving society, filling it with shops, bridges and
other accommodations for its residents. There are no high scores,
vampire Nazis or final bosses. The game is played at a relaxed pace, in
which the player can do as much or as little as they want on any given
day. Upbeat acoustic jams or sultry bossa nova synths play in the
background.

Already, early
\href{https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/26/21195022/animal-crossing-switch-sales-japan-famitsu}{sales
figures} from Japan and Britain suggest that this is the strongest
launch for an Animal Crossing game in history. (U.S. figures are to be
released later this month.) And the game has extended its reach beyond
its main platform, with users sharing screenshots on social media of
their Japanese-inspired homes, custom T-shirt designs and perfectly
arranged flower gardens. It became the No. 1 trending game on the
platform, with Japan, the U.S., Korea, France and Spain at the top.

``It's now the No. 1 most talked-about game in the world, dethroning the
likes of Fate/Grand Order --- which held that title for nearly two years
--- and Fortnite,'' said Rishi Chadha, global head of gaming
partnerships at Twitter. ``The growth in conversation has been
astronomical. Conversation volume since launch has grown over 1,000
percent and the number of people tweeting about the game has grown over
400 percent.''

Indeed, there have been more than 38 million tweets about the game since
its release, many celebrating its ability to provide comfort and social
connection in a time of isolation and struggle.

``There's no nastiness. There's no violence that exists. They get
absorbed into the day-to-day things without the real world
consequences,'' said Romana Ramzan, a lecturer at Glasgow Caledonian
University in Scotland who teaches game narrative. ``It's like you've
been transported to a parallel universe. It's the universe you've always
wanted, but can't get.''

Dr. Ramzan posits that the opportunities Animal Crossing affords players
contribute to its wide appeal. For children, being able to engage in
adultlike chores, like building and decorating a house, gives them power
often out of reach. For adults, especially millennials who have lived
through the Great Recession and current coronavirus-induced economic
stress, it offers the white picket fence often associated with the
American dream that's increasingly elusive. Debt, which can accumulate
quickly in Animal Crossing, can also be paid off easily. Goals feel
attainable and within reach.

Though the aesthetics of the game might lead some to believe it's geared
toward children, it's found a dedicated audience with millennials, some
of whom grew up with the franchise, and with younger audiences
experiencing it for the first time. It's all the more intensified for
those struggling with isolation and addiction.

Joseph Gorordo, 35, is a vice president of outreach for
\href{https://www.recoveryunplugged.com/}{Recovery Unplugged}, a chain
of music-based alcohol and drug treatment centers. He and his clients
have been using Animal Crossing as a way to connect while practicing
social distancing.

``On Sunday night, I got onto my island, I opened it up, within an hour
I had four friends, two colleagues, and two clients in recovery who were
all hanging out on this island and having a mini support meeting,'' said
Mr. Gorordo, a former heroin addict.

He understands intimately many of the anxieties being felt by
millennials, especially those who turn to drugs and alcohol. Animal
Crossing offers a haven and can give players a feeling of empowerment
and community, particularly at a moment when many are being told to stay
at home.

``So much of recovery from addiction or mental health issues is
connection,'' Mr. Gorordo said. ``With so much of us trapped in our
houses right now, meeting up virtually has us support each other in this
game in a way we haven't, being self-isolated and in quarantine.''

Animal Crossing follows a real-time clock and calendar, meaning a minute
in the game is a minute in the real world. The game changes day to day,
with new fish, bugs and other surprises appearing only during certain
seasons or months. Animal Crossing doesn't have an end and can be played
indefinitely --- which is especially prescient when there's no deadline
to the current crisis. This pace bestows on the game a level of
calmness, one that gives the player total control over progression.

``Animal Crossing makes work feel soothing --- we call it gentle
progression,'' said Jennifer Scheurle, 31, lead game designer at Arena
Net in Seattle, the developers behind the Guild Wars franchise. Ms.
Scheurle said Animal Crossing's pace --- players chop wood or build a
bridge at their own speed, for example --- makes it feel both personal
and predictable.

The sweater-wearing chubby bears or cardio-obsessed squirrels are upbeat
and positive. And the entire warm-hug aesthetic gives the game its
universal appeal.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/07/arts/07gaming-animalcrossing2/07gaming-animalcrossing2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``I don't want to be stereotypical here, but women don't mind doing
small task-based games,'' said Gwen Reilly, 24, a freelance illustrator
from Pasadena, Calif. ``They enjoy the process of building stuff up
slowly.''

For Ms. Reilly, there's a parallel between hobbies popular among women,
like sewing or gardening, and the deliberate pace of the game.
``Watching Animal Crossing slowly build up is a part of the cathartic
factor, seeing your creation improve day by day.''

Animal Crossing may be a game without a final goal that ends the
journey, but users will eventually stop playing it. Years from now, when
the coronavirus has passed and the economy has recovered, players can
still log back in and see how their island is doing. Sure, it will be
covered in weeds, certain residents may have moved, and cockroaches will
be hiding under furniture.

But when players do run into another resident, their old animal friends
will be happy to see that they are doing OK.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
