Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}South Korean Court
Begins Hearings on Park Geun-hye's Impeachment

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ija70A}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{south-korean-court-begins-hearings-on-park-geun-hyes-impeachment}{%
\section{South Korean Court Begins Hearings on Park Geun-hye's
Impeachment}\label{south-korean-court-begins-hearings-on-park-geun-hyes-impeachment}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/23/world/23KOREA-1/23KOREA-1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 22, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

SEOUL, South Korea --- South Korea's Constitutional Court, which will
decide whether President Park Geun-hye is permanently removed from
office, on Thursday ordered Ms. Park to respond to one of the most
contentious accusations against her: that she neglected her duties on
the day in 2014 when hundreds died in the sinking of a ferry.

Ms. Park's presidential powers have been suspended since Dec. 9, when
the National Assembly
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/09/world/asia/south-korea-president-park-geun-hye-impeached.html}{voted
to impeach her}. The Constitutional Court has until June to decide
whether her impeachment is justified, either reinstating her or formally
ending her presidency. Thursday's hearing, which Ms. Park did not
attend, was the start of that process.

The legislature
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/08/world/asia/south-korea-park-geun-hye-accusations-impeachment.html}{accused
Ms. Park of a wide range of violations} of law and the Constitution,
including taking bribes from businesses. But for South Koreans, perhaps
the most emotional accusation is that Ms. Park failed to protect
citizens' lives on April 16, 2014, the day the Sewol ferry
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/04/21/world/asia/chaos-ruled-sinking-ferry.html}{sank
off the country's southwestern coast}. More than 300 people drowned,
most of them teenagers on a school trip, and the country was scarred by
the catastrophe, perhaps the worst in its peacetime history.

Ms. Park has been dogged by questions about what she was doing during
the first seven hours of the Sewol disaster. She did not emerge from her
official residence during that time, and her office has not explained
what she was doing, though it has said she received updates and gave
orders. In its impeachment bill, the National Assembly said Ms. Park's
reticence undermined the people's right to know about the government's
activities.

On Thursday, the court appeared to agree.

``That was such a day for the country that most people will remember
what they were doing that day,'' Justice Lee Jin-sung said. ``I am sure
she has such memories. We ask her to give us a thorough account of where
in the Blue House she was in those seven hours, an hour-by-hour account
of what official and private work she was doing then, and what reports
and instructions she received and gave.''

A variety of government failures contributed to the Sewol disaster, and
it deepened distrust of Ms. Park's leadership. Lurid rumors have since
spread about what she was doing during those hours; one such story says
she was having a romantic liaison, another that she was undergoing
plastic surgery. No evidence has emerged to support either allegation,
both of which her office has denied. Her government has sued and even
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/10/10/world/asia/japan-protests-an-indictment-of-a-journalist-.html}{arrested}
people who have been accused of spreading such rumors.

Though Ms. Park's office said she was kept up to date about the
disaster, her visit to an emergency management center later that day led
some to conclude that she was not fully informed. At one point, she
asked why it was difficult to find missing passengers when they had life
jackets; an official had to remind her that the passengers were trapped
inside the ship, which had overturned and all but disappeared below the
water.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/23/world/23KOREA-2/23KOREA-2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The hearing on Thursday was brief and largely procedural, attended by
only three of the court's nine justices, as well as lawyers representing
Ms. Park and those appointed by the National Assembly to act as
prosecutors. Two lone protesters stood outside the court, one supporting
Ms. Park and the other calling for her impeachment, with a sign reading,
``The 304 who died in the Sewol ferry are watching you!'' The next
hearing was set for Tuesday.

The move to impeach Ms. Park stemmed originally from allegations that
she conspired with a longtime friend and confidante,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/01/world/asia/south-korea-park-geun-hye-choi-soon-sil.html}{Choi
Soon-sil}, to force big businesses to donate tens of millions of dollars
to two foundations that Ms. Choi controlled. Ms. Park was also accused
of letting Ms. Choi interfere with government affairs, despite having no
official post.

Ms. Park's approval ratings dropped to record lows in the weeks before
her impeachment, and huge crowds filled central Seoul calling on her to
resign or be removed from office.

Prosecutors have indicted Ms. Choi on extortion and other charges and
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/20/world/asia/park-geun-hye-south-korea-extortion-accomplice-prosecutors.html}{identified
Ms. Park as an accomplice}, though as a sitting president she cannot be
indicted. The National Assembly is conducting its own investigation of
the scandal, as is a special prosecutor. Both Ms. Park and Ms. Choi have
denied breaking the law.

Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn is serving as acting president while Ms.
Park is suspended. If the court removes her from office, a presidential
election would be held 60 days later.

On Thursday, the special prosecutor's office said it was asking the
authorities in Germany to detain and extradite Ms. Choi's daughter,
Chung Yoo-ra, who is believed to be there. The Foreign Ministry said Ms.
Chung's passport would be invalidated if she did not return to South
Korea.

The special prosecutor is looking into allegations that Ms. Choi used
millions of dollars from Samsung, South Korea's largest conglomerate, to
finance her daughter's equestrian career and a luxurious lifestyle in
Germany.

A special prosecutor in South Korea has obtained a warrant to detain Ms.
Chung for questioning. She is accused of illegally enrolling in Ewha
Womans University in Seoul.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
