Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Hurricane Isaias Rakes the Bahamas on
a Track for Florida's East Coast

\url{https://nyti.ms/2DndVgW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{hurricane-isaias-rakes-the-bahamas-on-a-track-for-floridas-east-coast}{%
\section{Hurricane Isaias Rakes the Bahamas on a Track for Florida's
East
Coast}\label{hurricane-isaias-rakes-the-bahamas-on-a-track-for-floridas-east-coast}}

The National Hurricane Center issued a hurricane warning for over 150
miles of the Florida coastline, stretching from Boca Raton to the
northern bound of Brevard County.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/multimedia/31xp-isaias-pix/merlin_175163016_3055f67c-4591-457c-8e1b-fdc07f7e3ec3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/johnny-diaz}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/11/05/reader-center/author-johnny-diaz/author-johnny-diaz-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/johnny-diaz}{Johnny Diaz}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

MIAMI --- A hurricane warning was issued for parts of Florida's Atlantic
coast on Friday, hours after Hurricane Isaias raked the Bahamas, parts
of Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic.

The National Hurricane Center issued the warning for over 150 miles of
the Florida coastline, stretching from Boca Raton to the northern bound
of Brevard County, according to an
\href{https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/text/refresh/MIATCPAT4+shtml/312049.shtml}{advisory}
on Friday afternoon. Hurricane warnings are still in effect for portions
of the
\href{https://www.nhc.noaa.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?start\#contents}{Bahamas}
through Saturday.

Hurricane watches, tropical storm warnings, a storm surge watch and a
tropical storm watch are in effect for other parts of Florida's east
coast.

The center forecast that the storm would near southeast Florida Saturday
afternoon and through Sunday, and then travel north up the state's
eastern coast late Sunday. Isaias threatened strong winds, heavy
rainfall and high storm surges late this weekend.

Isaias, a Category 1 hurricane, is expected to continue to strengthen
Friday night and early Saturday and remain a hurricane for the next few
days, but it is not forecast to strengthen to a Category 2, said Dennis
Feltgen, a meteorologist and spokesman for the National Hurricane
Center.

The storm, already the ninth named system of the 2020 Atlantic hurricane
season, approached the Bahamas from the southeast on Friday morning,
with maximum sustained winds of 75 miles per hour. Strong squalls and
possible storm surges, forecast between three to five feet, threatened
the islands, according to the center.

The potential storm surges were
``\href{https://twitter.com/NWS/status/1289189099836977152}{on top of
astronomical tides},'' the center's director, Ken Graham, said on
Friday. He described Isaias as ``a very large storm,'' with tropical
force winds stretching out as far as 180 miles from the hurricane's
center.

``It's not just a point, it's not just a track, it's a very large
area,'' he said.

Across the central Bahamas on Friday, conditions gradually deteriorated
as the storm barreled across new ground. The threat from Isaias to the
Bahamas comes less than a year after Hurricane Dorian
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/25/world/americas/hurricane-dorian-abaco-island-bahamas.html}{ravaged
Abaco and Grand Bahama}, leaving residents in those areas especially
unnerved. Many survivors of Dorian, who saw homes, schools, banks and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/06/world/americas/hurricane-dorian-bahamas.html}{whole
communities crushed to rubble}, are still living in tents and unrepaired
homes.

The storm hit the Bahamas as it is grappling with a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/world/americas/virus-caribbean-hurricane.html}{rapid
increase} in the number of coronavirus infections that has only
accelerated in recent days, in what health officials are calling a
second wave.

On Thursday night, Prime Minister Hubert Minnis announced the temporary
relaxation of restrictions to give people more time to prepare for the
storm. While there are formal hurricane shelters on Grand Bahama, it was
unclear how officials would ensure social distancing in them.

In an interview with
\href{https://thenassauguardian.com/2020/07/31/isaias-stirs-new-fears-among-dorian-survivors/}{The
Nassau Guardian}, Melissa McPhee, 44, said her Grand Bahama home was
protected only by a tarp on her roof, after having sustained significant
flood and wind damage during Dorian. But she said that she had nowhere
else to go.

Ms. McPhee said that, as someone with an underlying condition, she was
at a high risk for complications from Covid-19. She was afraid to
venture out to prepare for Isaias, she said, and felt that she could not
chance staying in a crowded hurricane shelter.

Florida has also been grappling with a surge in coronavirus cases. There
were more than 461,000 cases statewide and more than 6,500 deaths as of
Friday since the beginning of the pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{according
to a New York Times database}. Friday was the third consecutive day that
Florida set its record for the most deaths reported in a single day.

Gov. Ron DeSantis said at a news conference on Friday that Florida was
``fully prepared for this and any future storm during this hurricane
season.'' He said that the division of emergency management had been
working at
\href{https://www.floridadisaster.org/sert/eoc-activation-levels/}{its
most active level} since March, ``allowing them to actively plan for
hurricane season even while responding to the Covid-19 pandemic.''

Mr. DeSantis added that early on, the division had created a protective
equipment reserve for hurricane season, including 20 million masks, 22
million gloves and 1.6 million face shields.

This week, the state's division of emergency management announced that
state-sponsored coronavirus testing sites in 11 counties would
\href{https://twitter.com/FLSERT/status/1288974249194147840}{remain
open}, but that others would close at 5 p.m. Thursday until it was
\href{https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/FLDEM/bulletins/297ef6d}{safe
to reopen}.

At news conferences on Friday, the Miami-Dade and Broward County mayors
said coronavirus testing sites would be closed until
\href{https://www.miamidade.gov/releases/2020-07-30-mayor-testing-closure.asp}{next
week}.

Meteorologists have forecast a busy Atlantic hurricane season, which
runs from June 1 through Nov. 30, raising fears among emergency managers
about how to handle a potential major
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/24/us/hurricane-pandemic-coronavirus-florida.html}{hurricane
landing during the pandemic}. Evacuation orders typically call people
into the close quarters of emergency shelters, or to crowded
distribution centers.

Last week, Hurricane Hanna
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/us/hanna-storm-texas.html}{hit
part of Texas as a Category 1 storm}, landing near some of the cities
and counties that have seen a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and
hospitalizations. San Antonio officials handed out hotel room vouchers
for people who fled their homes, and the mayor of Corpus Christi urged
people to wear masks at home if they took in relatives.

The average hurricane season usually produces 12 named storms, including
three that develop into major hurricanes. This year, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
\href{https://www.noaa.gov/media-release/busy-atlantic-hurricane-season-predicted-for-2020}{predicted
an above normal season} in the Atlantic, with as many as 19 named
storms. Up to 10 of those storms could become hurricanes, and as many as
six of those could develop into Category 3, 4 or 5 hurricanes.

Rachel Knowles Scott contributed reporting from Nassau, the Bahamas, and
Christina Morales from Hialeah, Fla.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
