Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Plays on Racist Fears
of Terrorized Suburbs to Court White Voters

\url{https://nyti.ms/33klKPF}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-plays-on-racist-fears-of-terrorized-suburbs-to-court-white-voters}{%
\section{Trump Plays on Racist Fears of Terrorized Suburbs to Court
White
Voters}\label{trump-plays-on-racist-fears-of-terrorized-suburbs-to-court-white-voters}}

President Trump painted a false picture of suburbs under siege, saying
he was protecting them from low-income housing, as he seeks to win over
white voters who were key to his 2016 victory.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29TRUMP-SUBURBS/merlin_174387555_a81a394f-9b9a-4bfd-8dfd-dae963e10c8b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump vowed on Wednesday to protect
suburbanites from low-income housing being built in their neighborhoods,
making an appeal to white suburban voters by trying to stir up racist
fears about affordable housing and the people who live there.

\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1288509568578777088?s=20}{In
a tweet} and later in remarks during a visit to Texas, Mr. Trump painted
a false picture of the suburbs as under siege and ravaged by crime,
using fear-mongering language that has become something of a rhetorical
flourish in his general election campaign against the presumptive
Democratic nominee, Joseph R. Biden Jr.

Mr. Trump said on Twitter that ``people living their Suburban Lifestyle
Dream'' would ``no longer be bothered or financially hurt by having low
income housing built in your neighborhood.'' The president was referring
to the administration's decision last week to roll back an Obama-era
program intended to combat racial segregation in suburban housing. The
program
\href{https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_20_109}{expanded
provisions} in the Fair Housing Act to encourage diversification and
``foster inclusive communities.''

``Your housing prices will go up based on the market, and crime will go
down,'' he wrote, even though there was no evidence that the program led
to an increase in crime.

The tweet, sent from aboard Air Force One as Mr. Trump traveled to
Texas, was the latest example of the president stoking racial division
as he seeks to win over voters in his bid for re-election. White
suburban voters, particularly women, were key to his victory in 2016 but
are slipping away from him.

The remarks also came just days after aides had convinced the president
that his best re-election strategy was to demonstrate that he was
focused on a comprehensive response to the surging coronavirus pandemic.
In recent weeks, as the president's poll numbers have tumbled, some of
his advisers have told Mr. Trump to try to convince a skeptical nation
that he has been effective in managing the virus crisis and is taking it
seriously.

Last week, Mr. Trump resuscitated the White House briefings focused on
the pandemic, keeping them shorter and more focused than the ones he
conducted in March, when he often rambled in his comments, sparred with
the news media and engaged in fanciful speculation, including that
injecting disinfectant into the human body could help fend off the
virus.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T20:32:48.543Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3924dd44}{Two
  G.O.P. Senate primaries offer --- what else? --- a test of loyalty to
  Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-32b39e33}{President
  Trump is suddenly a big supporter of mail-in voting --- in Florida.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6d019753}{Election
  experts warn Congress about widespread disenfranchisement of voters of
  color in November.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

He also changed his stance on face masks, calling it ``patriotic'' to
wear one, and even appearing in public with one on. On Monday, Mr. Trump
promoted what he claimed was quick progress on a vaccine during a trip
to North Carolina to visit a plant working on one.

But since he took office, Mr. Trump's presidency has unfolded along two
tracks: the scripted one, which he sticks to for hours or sometimes days
at a time, and the one guided by his own instincts, often revealed on
Twitter. Mr. Trump has been more eager to talk about culture wars, and
draw attention to images of unrest on the streets of cities led by
Democratic politicians, than to stay focused on the virus.

And his tweet on Wednesday was further evidence that he inevitably
reverts to his instinct to play to his base when campaigning under
pressure.

During his remarks in West Texas later on Wednesday, Mr. Trump bragged
again that he had ended a government program that tries to reduce
segregation in suburban areas.

``People fight all of their lives to get into the suburbs and have a
beautiful home,'' he said. ``There will be no more low-income housing
forced into the suburbs.''

``It's been hell for suburbia,'' he added, before telling the audience
to ``enjoy your life, ladies and gentlemen.''

Mr. Trump has also invoked the suburbs to try to increase apprehension
about Mr. Biden. Last week he provocatively tweeted directly to ``the
Suburban Housewives of America,'' warning, ``Biden will destroy your
neighborhood and your American Dream.''

Andrew Bates, a spokesman for Mr. Biden, the former vice president,
accused Mr. Trump of trying to further divide the country.

``Instead of finally leading, Donald Trump is yet again attempting to
distract from his catastrophic, failed response to the pandemic by
trying to divide our nation,'' Mr. Bates said. ``Turning Americans
against each other with total lies is unacceptable for a
commander-in-chief at any time, but it's especially heinous to do so in
a moment of worsening crisis.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/29/us/politics/29trump-suburbs2/merlin_175014891_031c0ef6-5da3-41ca-845d-62ba5908e504-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The Biden campaign said that as president, Mr. Biden would reinstate the
program
\href{https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_20_109}{expanding
provisions} in the Fair Housing Act.

Mr. Trump and his father,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/donald-fred-trump.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Fred
Trump}, were sued by the Justice Department in the 1970s for their
company's practice of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/08/28/us/politics/donald-trump-housing-race.html}{discriminating
against Black tenants}.

Mr. Trump's view of the makeup of the American suburbs also appears to
be frozen in time. In 2018, support from suburban voters helped
Democrats retake the House of Representatives. The following year, they
helped Democrats win governorships in reliably red states like Kentucky
and Louisiana.

Mr. Trump's support among women and among independent voters has
suffered as he has repeatedly made divisive entreaties based on race or
retweeted inflammatory Twitter posts. His mishandling of the coronavirus
pandemic has also contributed to his falloff in the polls.

Earlier this year, the Trump campaign poured tens of millions of dollars
into television commercials highlighting the administration's focus on
criminal justice reform, which was as much an attempt to convince white
suburban voters that the president was not racist as it was to expand
Mr. Trump's appeal among voters of color.

Since then, however, Mr. Trump's own rhetoric and the actions of his
administration appear to have undone any inroads those advertisements
may have made. He has demonized protesters in the wake of the killing of
George Floyd, a Black man, in the custody of white police officers. Vice
President Mike Pence has refused to say ``Black Lives Matter,''
insisting in an interview that ``all life matters, born and unborn.''

Mr. Trump has said that Black Lives Matter is a ``symbol of hate,''
despite the fact that a majority of voters support the protests that
have taken place nationally.

The president also has openly defended the Confederate flag, scolding
NASCAR when it banned it from its races, and he has tried to conflate
peaceful protesters with a smaller group who have more aggressively
sought to tear down statues of Confederate generals.

Jef Pollock, a Democratic pollster, said that Mr. Trump is recycling a
political playbook from an era that's long gone.

``Trump is playing old New York politics from the 1990s,'' Mr. Pollock
said. ``The reality is that more and more suburban voters have embraced
diversity as a positive thing for their community. They support the
Black Lives Matter movement, and from an aspirational perspective, they
want their children to grow up in a more tolerant and less divided
country. What's scary to them is the constant division and intolerance
that Trump is promulgating.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Five states are holding primary elections Tuesday, with voters in
    Arizona, Kansas, Michigan, Missouri and Washington State choosing
    nominees for Congress and local offices.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/04/us/elections/primary-election-michigan-arizona-kansas.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Follow
    live election updates here.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
