Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Senate Passed the
Criminal Justice Bill. For Jared Kushner, It's a Personal Issue and a
Rare Victory.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zYuNWO}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-senate-passed-the-criminal-justice-bill-for-jared-kushner-its-a-personal-issue-and-a-rare-victory}{%
\section{The Senate Passed the Criminal Justice Bill. For Jared Kushner,
It's a Personal Issue and a Rare
Victory.}\label{the-senate-passed-the-criminal-justice-bill-for-jared-kushner-its-a-personal-issue-and-a-rare-victory}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/12/15/us/politics/15dc-kushner1/15dc-kushner1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 14, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Updated Wednesday, Dec. 19: The Senate on Tuesday passed the
criminal justice overhaul. For more coverage and analysis of the
bipartisan effort,}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/us/politics/senate-criminal-justice-bill.html}{\emph{read
here}}\emph{.}

WASHINGTON --- The day after President Trump announced his support for a
bipartisan criminal justice overhaul bill in the Roosevelt Room, Mitch
McConnell, the Senate majority leader, arrived in the Oval Office to
give him a dose of political reality. He was not going to bring the bill
to the Senate floor until next year, Mr. McConnell told the president.

Mr. Trump called for his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, the administration's
driving force behind the bill, to join the meeting and hear the news
himself. As Mr. Kushner entered the Oval Office, Mr. McConnell joked
that he felt like he had heard from everyone Mr. Kushner knew.

``That's not true,'' Mr. Kushner replied, according to administration
officials. ``I have a lot more people.''

And he did.

Because Mr. Trump agreed that the bill had to wait, according to
administration officials, Mr. Kushner enlisted Vice President Mike Pence
to explain to the president that waiting until next year, when a House
controlled by the Democrats would then vote on the bill, would most
likely result in a version that he would not like. Mr. Kushner called
Rupert Murdoch, his son Lachlan Murdoch and Hope Hicks, the former White
House communications director who is now a senior executive at Fox, to
release a statement backing his bill.

Mr. Kushner also appeared on ``Hannity'' on Fox News in an effort to
make clear to the president's base and Republican senators on the fence
that even Sean Hannity, the hard-right host, was supportive of it.

The bill's advocates say Mr. Kushner's efforts were part of the reason
Mr. McConnell reversed course, announcing that the Senate would vote on
the bill next week. But even more important was his ability, over a
course of years, to make Mr. Trump comfortable with the need for
criminal justice overhaul in the first place.

``The bipartisan coalition was there before Jared showed up,'' said
Ronald A. Klain, a former senior official in the Obama and Clinton
administrations. ``The Koch brothers deserve credit for that. But if
Jared got the president to be for it, that is a key part of getting it
done, and he does deserve credit for that.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/12/15/us/politics/15dc-kushner2/merlin_148017759_d0ff93ee-de44-4569-8ebf-95c45aec7094-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

In a statement, Mr. Kushner played down his role. ``For all those who
are deserving of a second chance, this legislation will make a
meaningful and measurable difference in their lives,'' he said. ``We
could not have reached this point without the leadership and vision of
the president.''

But for Mr. Kushner, it was a rare success after perhaps the most
difficult period he has faced as a member of the Trump family and as a
high-ranking official in the Trump White House.

His
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/08/world/middleeast/saudi-mbs-jared-kushner.html}{close
relationship} with Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, whom he
has defended even after intelligence agencies concluded that the prince
ordered the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi journalist, has
generated bitter criticism from even Republicans. Within the White
House, where Mr. Kushner has feuded with John F. Kelly, the chief of
staff and technically his superior, his attempt to replace him with Nick
Ayers, an ally, backfired when
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/09/us/politics/nick-ayers-trump-chief-of-staff.html}{Mr.
Ayers would not agree} to Mr. Trump's conditions for the job.

And other issues on which Mr. Kushner has focused have gotten little
traction. The release of his Middle East peace plan has been delayed
until next year, and some of the top people on his team tasked with
innovating the government have already left the Trump administration.

But criminal justice is something personal. Mr. Kushner's father,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2005/03/05/nyregion/democratic-donor-receives-twoyear-prison-sentence.html}{after
being sentenced in 2005},
\href{https://www.al.com/news/index.ssf/2017/06/father_of_trump_son-in-law_jar.html}{served
14 months in an Alabama federal prison} for tax evasion, witness
tampering and making illegal donations.

``Jared is committed in a way you can only be when you've seen your
daddy hurt,'' said Van Jones, a liberal CNN host who has worked closely
with Mr. Kushner on the issue. ``What I've seen is someone who is
personally driven to make a powerful change in the experience of people
behind bars.''

Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, who had been part of the coalition that pushed a
more extensive criminal justice bill during the Obama administration,
first approached Mr. Kushner about the issue in the opening months of
the administration last year and asked him to meet on the issue.

Mr. Kushner was inclined to get involved. The bigger question was
whether his tough-on-crime father-in-law would support the legislation.
Realizing that Mr. Trump was unlikely to be in favor of sentencing
overhauls, Mr. Kushner decided to focus on prison overhauls and leave
the sentencing piece of the puzzle to Jeff Sessions, the attorney
general at the time.

Knowing that Mr. Trump learns by hearing from people, rather than from
reading briefing books, Mr. Kushner arranged for blocks of ``policy
time'' on his father-in-law's schedule and flooded the zone, bringing
conservative leaders and governors to explain how the mission fit in
with Mr. Trump's campaign promise of standing for the forgotten man.

Image

Mr. Trump shaking hands with Paul M. Cell, the president of the
International Association of Chiefs of Police, during the president's
announcement to introduce the First Step Act.Credit...Al Drago for The
New York Times

Meetings with Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West, organized by Mr.
Kushner, also helped bring outsize attention to the issue. And above his
office door in the West Wing hangs a poster from Mr. West, with the
slogan, ``Bringing Dignity to Forgotten America,'' and signed, ``To
Jared from your friend Ye.''

On another track, Mr. Kushner worked to win over skeptical Democrats
wary of the Trump administration. When Representative Hakeem Jeffries of
New York refused invitations to meetings at the White House, Mr. Kushner
agreed to meet him on his turf, so he dined with Mr. Jeffries and
Representative Cedric L. Richmond of Louisiana in the Members Dining
Hall.

He kept them on board by pushing back against Mr. Sessions, who wanted
to insert statutes that were deal breakers for Democrats. ``There was a
constant back-and-forth with Sessions, and Kushner won that battle,''
Mr. Jeffries said. ``It's fair to say that if we're able to get
meaningful criminal justice reform over the finish line, it would not
have occurred without substantial leadership from Jared Kushner.''

Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey, recalled hearing
from Mr. Kushner on the issue as early as April 2017.

``Jared called and asked if he could meet with the caucus, and he and
Van Jones and Grover Norquist showed up,'' Mr. Gottheimer said. ``It was
a motley crew that came in. I spoke to him regularly over the ensuing
months. He was obviously very committed.''

Over Thanksgiving, Mr. Kushner realized that the message had sunk in. He
was out of town when he saw that Mr. Trump --- without any prodding ---
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1066017112425185280}{wrote
on Twitter}: ``Really good Criminal Justice Reform has a true shot at
major bipartisan support. @senatemajldr Mitch McConnell and @SenSchumer
have a real chance to do something so badly needed in our country.
Already passed, with big vote, in House. Would be a major victory for
ALL!''

But the bill still has its detractors. On the right, Senator Tom Cotton,
Republican of Arkansas, continues to oppose cutting mandatory minimum
sentences for serious crimes and has campaigned to defeat the bill.

On the left, Roy Austin, who led the Obama administration's efforts on
criminal justice overhauls, said that passing the First Step Act, as the
legislation is called, would be ``a Pyrrhic victory'' that would leave
those now in the criminal justice system ``exactly where they are: at
the mercy of an administration that has no real interest in reform.''

Mr. Jones said his work with the Trump administration has surprised him,
but he disagreed.

``This issue was marginal and only used as a weapon to say someone else
is soft on crime,'' Mr. Jones said. ``The person who made it safe for
everyone is Donald Trump, and that is an insane outcome.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
