Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/design}{Art \&
Design}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/arts/design}{Art \& Design}\textbar{}Christie's New
Auction Technique: The Global Gavel

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fjad63}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{christies-new-auction-technique-the-global-gavel}{%
\section{Christie's New Auction Technique: The Global
Gavel}\label{christies-new-auction-technique-the-global-gavel}}

The sale on Friday, which started in Hong Kong and included Paris,
London and New York, raised \$420.9 million.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/10/arts/10auction1/10auction1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Scott Reyburn

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It started in Hong Kong at 9:25 in the evening, moved back eight time
zones to Paris and London in the afternoon, and then finished in New
York at 11:15 Friday morning. In just under four hours, \$420.9 million
had been spent.

This was the back-to-the-future format of Christie's live-streamed
``ONE'' sale, the latest attempt by an international auction house to
demonstrate that, thanks to the latest technology, the
multimillion-dollar top end of the art market can still sparkle in the
gloom of a pandemic.

Christie's four-venue ``global 20th century art sale'' replaced the
company's live evening auctions of contemporary, Impressionist and
modern art in New York in May and in London in June. It followed
Sotheby's pioneering live-streamed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/30/arts/design/sothebys-online-auction.html}{\$363.2
million ``clicks and bricks'' auction} on June 29, and an equivalent
hybrid offering at Phillips on July 2 that raised
\href{https://www.artnews.com/art-news/market/phillips-june-2020-evening-sale-1202693351/}{\$41
million}.

The Covid-induced shift from live to online-only sales has severely
dented turnover at the major auction houses. During the second quarter
of 2020, Christie's auction revenues were down 60 percent from the same
period last year, according to the London art analytics company Pi-eX.
Christie's, like Sotheby's and Phillips, has had to come up with
compelling new auction formats to re-engage the 0.01 percent of the
population that buys and sells big-ticket art.

``Everyone was holding their breath before Sotheby's sale,'' said
Abigail Asher, co-founder of Guggenheim Asher, an art advisory company
in New York. ``There had been no public transactions of this value since
February.'' Sotheby's had shown that there was ``absolute confidence in
art as an asset class,'' she added. ``This is a global buying market.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/10/arts/10AUCTION3/10AUCTION3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

That was certainly the thinking behind Christie's ``ONE'' sale, a relay
of four auctioneers seamlessly ``passing the gavel'' in real time,
``crossing borders to create one vision, one sale.'' Unlike Sotheby's
``multicamera global livestream'' predecessor, which featured one
auctioneer in an empty studio fluently fielding telephone and online
bids from screens, Christie's sequence of live sales had a lot of moving
parts, some of which moved better than others.

``It seemed to be a great thing, but access was a little complicated,
and when the Hong Kong auction was not starting half an hour late, I
lost interest,'' said Nikolaus Barta, a collector and art insurer, based
in Vienna.

The sale eventually started 56 minutes late. The live feed was prone to
freezing and breaking, and viewers were at times confused as to which
auctioneer was actually selling the work in question. ``No, I'm selling
it,'' said a frustrated Cécile Verdier, Christie's auctioneer in Paris,
as Jussi Pylkkanen, the company's global president, conducted a
mini-auction in London for the impressive 1963 Jean Dubuffet painting,
``Pourlèche Fiston.'' It eventually topped the Paris session with a
price of 6.5 million euros, or about \$7.4 million.

The sale was meant to have been kick-started in Hong Kong by a large red
``Hurricane Period'' abstract from 1963 by Zao Wou-Ki, Asia's most
coveted postwar international artist. Estimated to sell for at least
\$10 million, it failed to find a buyer.

``I was surprised,'' said Christian Ogier, a Paris-based dealer who
specializes in modern Asian art. ``I thought someone in Asia would go
for it. The size, color and date were good. But it was incredibly
expensive.''

It was left instead to the 1989 Gerhard Richter abstract, ``Frost (1)''
to lead a less than effervescent 10-lot Hong Kong session with a price
of \$10.3 **** million, just above its high estimate.

Over in London, Rene Magritte's quintessentially enigmatic 1962
painting, ``L'Arc de Triomphe,'' depicting a tree standing in front of a
wall of foliage, inspired serious competition, almost doubling its
estimate to sell to a telephone bidder in New York for 17.8 million
pounds, or about \$22.4 million.

Image

Pablo Picasso's 1955 ``Les Femmes d'Alger (Version `F')'' was pushed by
three bidders to \$29.2 million.Credit...Estate of Pablo Picasso/Artists
Rights Society (ARS), New York, via Christie's

Most of the sale's major-name trophies were clustered in the concluding
33-lot New York session. Pablo Picasso's ``Les Femmes d'Alger (Version
`F')'' from 1955, and Barnett Newman's 1948 Abstract Expressionist
rarity, ``Onement V,'' were museum-quality masterworks that appealed to
an older tradition of collecting. The Picasso was pushed by three
bidders to \$29.2 million, but the Newman, estimated at \$30 million,
sold to a single bid of \$30.9 million.

Roy Lichtenstein's iconic 1994 Pop canvas, ``Nude With Joyous
Painting,'' valued at \$30 million, proved to be more in tune with
billionaires' current collecting tastes. From the series of nudes that
the artist painted during the last five years of his life, and never
seen at auction before, this piece sparked a nine-minute battle between
telephone bidders, before falling to a client in Hong Kong for the
sale's top price of \$46.2 million.

Most remarkable of the seven new auction highs set in New York for
individual artists was the \$30.9 million given for ``Complements,'' an
admired 8-foot-wide, two-panel abstract of colorful intertwining threads
painted by the in-vogue American Minimalist painter Brice Marden, the
subject of a sold-out show at the Gagosian Gallery in New York last
year. Painted between 2004 and 2007, and guaranteed to sell for a
minimum of \$30 million, ``Complements'' more than tripled the artist's
previous auction high. Such are the dynamics of the market for
contemporary art that auction prices for Mr. Marden are now almost as
high as those for an old master like **** for Rembrandt, whose current
auction record is \$33.2 million, according to Artprice.

``Christie's was trying to set a whole new load of records for artists
because they thought they had the whole world looking on,'' said Michael
Short, an art adviser in Berlin, who noticed the measured nature of the
bidding on many of the lots. ``It didn't have the animal energy of a
live auction.''

But others were impressed. ``It was an incredible live experiment, which
allows one to feel and realize the width, and breadth of the art market,
as well as judge the depth of it on a specific artist or artwork,'' said
Mr. Ogier, the Paris-based dealer.

Overall, Christie's inaugural ONE sale raised \$420.9 million from 79
offered lots. ``It's a great result in the circumstances of the
market,'' said Guillaume Cerutti, Christie's chief executive, at the
post-sale Zoom news conference. ``As a global concept it worked very
well.'' He added that more than. 20,000 people followed the sale on
various digital channels.

But as was the case the previous week at Sotheby's, year-on-year sales
figures were significantly lower. Last May, Christie's evening sales of
Impressionist, modern and contemporary art raised \$937.8 million, more
than double the proceeds of the ``ONE'' auction.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
