Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}As Trump Slumps, Republican
Donors Look to Save the Senate

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CycDQf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{as-trump-slumps-republican-donors-look-to-save-the-senate}{%
\section{As Trump Slumps, Republican Donors Look to Save the
Senate}\label{as-trump-slumps-republican-donors-look-to-save-the-senate}}

Senators and donors worry that with President Trump in trouble and the
House probably out of reach, the Senate could be their last chance to
hold power in Washington.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/17/us/politics/00SENATE-DONORS1/merlin_174085227_23ab7e42-f038-4608-833d-b19f9974a8cd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 20, 2020Updated July 22, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Follow our live coverage of the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/27/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html}{\emph{2020
election between Joe Biden and President Trump}}\emph{.}

President
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/us/politics/trump-polls-2020.html}{Trump's
weak poll numbers} and a surge of Democratic cash flooding key Senate
races have jolted top Republicans and intensified talk among party
donors and strategists about redirecting money to protect their narrow
Senate Republican majority amid growing fear of complete Democratic
control of Washington in 2021.

Almost no one is talking openly about abandoning Mr. Trump at this
point. A total collapse at the top of the ticket, Republican strategists
and donors agree, would only make holding the Senate harder.

But maintaining the Senate is an imperative for the G.O.P.: A Democratic
Senate could offer a glide path for liberal Supreme Court nominees from
a President Biden, or block Mr. Trump's judges if he won a second term.
And right now, Senate Republican incumbents and candidates are losing
badly in the money chase not just in the top Senate battlegrounds ---
states like Maine, Arizona, Colorado and North Carolina --- but also in
conservative states, such as Montana, where seats are now increasingly
up for grabs.

Five of \href{https://cookpolitical.com/ratings/senate-race-ratings}{the
most endangered Republican senators} up for re-election were out-raised
by a combined \$18.5 million in the second quarter by their Democratic
challengers, recent campaign filings show.

The private discussions about whether to shift resources toward
imperiled Republican Senate candidates reflect a mix of factors: a lack
of confidence that Mr. Trump will beat
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}; fear that the president is already a drag on down-ballot
candidates; desire to maintain a G.O.P. ``firewall'' on Capitol Hill if
Mr. Biden prevails; and the belief that money is not among Mr. Trump's
myriad problems.

A series of national polls last week showed Mr. Trump stuck double
digits behind Mr. Biden, who now tops 50 percent in many surveys. The
president has more than three months to rebound, of course, and he is
flush with cash and continues to raise large sums online. But the trend
on the Republican political landscape is toward erosion, not growth.

Mr. Biden himself told a group of journalists last week that he could
see his party winning enough Senate seats this year that it would have
53 seats come January. And on Friday, as the Republican Senate
candidates struggled to raise money, the nonpartisan Cook Political
Report shifted its race ratings in 20 House seats --- all in favor of
the Democrats.

In interviews, more than two dozen top Republican donors and strategists
said that Mr. Trump's political fate would be far more contingent on his
own behavior and ability to navigate the Covid-19 crisis and the
struggling economy than any additional infusion of campaign cash. Yet
any efforts by donors to change their focus to the Senate will be a
delicate balance. Mr. Trump not only maintains an iron grip on the
Republican base that every Republican senator on the ballot will need to
mobilize but also a penchant to lash out at the first signs of
disloyalty.

``As Republicans get more and more in tune, it's hold the Senate at all
costs,'' said Dan K. Eberhart, an energy executive and a major
Republican donor. ``The House is gone. And the White House is looking
increasingly like an uphill battle. This is not a good picture for us.''

Mr. Eberhart, who contributed \$100,000 to Mr. Trump's efforts in June,
is now focused on the Senate and preparing an independent expenditure
radio campaign in Montana to bolster the fortunes of Senator Steve
Daines, who some private Republican polls show has fallen behind his
Democratic challenger, Gov. Steve Bullock.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

On Monday, new campaign filings showed that the billionaire casino
magnate Sheldon Adelson and his wife contributed \$25 million to a super
PAC dedicated to electing Senate Republicans in June, his biggest
contribution of the 2020 cycle so far. Mr. Adelson has yet to contribute
to Mr. Trump's main super PAC.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/us/politics/19SENATE-DONORS-sc/merlin_173376642_e9fc4434-6219-400b-9371-dda916fab0e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A wave of Democratic challengers raised more in the second quarter than
their Republican rivals, according to campaign filings made last week,
including in Montana. In North Carolina, a relatively unknown Democratic
challenger, Cal Cunningham, nearly tripled Senator Thom Tillis's haul,
raising \$7.4 million to \$2.6 million. In Maine, Senator Susan Collins,
the Republican, was substantially out-raised by her Democratic opponent,
Sara Gideon --- more than \$9 million to \$3.6 million.

And in Arizona, Mark Kelly, a Democrat who is a former astronaut and the
husband of former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, raised almost
\$12.8 million. His nearly \$24 million in the bank is more than twice
as much money as Senator Martha McSally, the Republican incumbent,
reported in a race a number of Republicans fear is slipping away.

Democrats must win a net of three new seats and the White House to take
control of the Senate, or four seats if Mr. Trump is re-elected, since
the vice president casts the deciding vote in case of an even split.

``We could be in big trouble in the Senate,'' said Fred Zeidman, a
Republican fund-raiser in Texas. ``If we lose the White House, then
we've lost everything. The Senate has to be the firewall.''

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, has
been warning donors in dire terms about permanent and systemic shifts
that could come about in a fully Democratic-controlled Washington next
year: adding Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C., as states, expanding the
Supreme Court, and the end of the legislative filibuster, which has
previously served as an institutional brake on congressional majorities,
according to people who have heard his pitch.

``We recognize that the Senate is the backstop,'' said Scott Reed, the
chief strategist for the United States Chamber of Commerce, calling it
the group's ``top priority'' in 2020.

Despite his grip on the party base, Mr. Trump has never fully
ingratiated himself with the full spectrum of traditional Republican
contributors.

Frank VanderSloot, a major Republican donor in Idaho who has given more
than \$800,000 to federal races since 2017, said that the Senate was his
top priority and that voters and donors alike were being turned off by
Mr. Trump's ``arrogance'' and tweets.

``He surprised us all last time when he won the first election,'' Mr.
VanderSloot said. ``But I think the chance of us having a Democrat, Joe
Biden, as president is pretty high.''

``Somebody's got to protect the country from foolishness,'' he added of
the Democratic agenda. ``The only hope is the Senate.''

Some of the party's most generous donors, including the hedge fund
managers Paul Singer and Kenneth C. Griffin, have been notably absent
from the rolls of donors to Mr. Trump's campaign and affiliated super
PAC. But Mr. Griffin and Mr. Singer gave a combined \$7.5 million in
federal donations last month, including \$750,000 to a super PAC
targeting a Democratic-held Senate seat in Michigan.

Image

John James, a Republican Senate candidate in Michigan, spoke to veterans
and supporters this month.Credit...Sylvia Jarrus for The New York Times

Democrats are chiefly defending two seats. One is in Alabama and the
other is in Michigan, where the Republican challenger,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/08/us/politics/john-james-michigan-senate.html}{John
James}, who is seeking to become the second Black Republican in the
current Senate, has proved a rare fund-raising bright spot, regularly
outpacing Senator Gary Peters.

But Democrats are on offense and are out-raising their Republican
counterparts across most of the map, in places including some deeply
Republican states that are not typically considered competitive, such as
Alaska, South Carolina and Mr. McConnell's home state, Kentucky. His
Democratic opponent, Amy McGrath, narrowly survived a June primary but
has proved herself a fund-raising phenomenon, raising more than \$47
million. Democratic candidates also raised more money than Republican
incumbents in Georgia, Iowa and Colorado in the second quarter.

And in South Carolina,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/29/us/politics/jaime-harrison-lindsey-graham.html}{Jaime
Harrison}, a former state Democratic Party chairman, raised \$13.9
million in his bid to unseat Senator Lindsey Graham --- more than \$5
million more than Mr. Graham.

``That's a crazy number,'' Henry Barbour, a Republican strategist and
Republican National Committee member, said of Mr. Harrison's haul.

Democratic candidates have gained a financial edge largely with a wave
of online donations that Republicans, other than Mr. Trump, have
struggled to match. Some strategists see the cash --- and the lack
thereof --- as a measurement of excitement.

``The challenge that the Senate has is President Trump is the only one
garnering any type of enthusiasm,'' said Bryan Lanza, a former aide to
Mr. Trump's 2016 campaign. ``He's the only one driving small donors,
because that's where the action is taking place.''

The fate of Senate candidates has been increasingly yoked to the top of
the ticket. In 2016, every state that elected a Republican senator also
voted for Mr. Trump, and every state that elected a Democratic senator
voted for Hillary Clinton. And in 2018, all five Senate incumbents who
lost were defeated by challengers from the party that carried their
state in the 2016 presidential contests.

Strategists in both parties expect that kind of polarization to
continue, making it hard for Republicans to distance from Mr. Trump.

In Maine, which split its electoral votes four years ago, Ms. Collins
recently called for a remarkable 16 debates between now and November, in
what appeared to be an effort to draw out and define her opponent
separate from the broader national mood. In Iowa, a state that Mr. Trump
carried in 2016 but which appears more competitive in 2020,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/20/us/politics/iowa-polls-trump-biden-ernst-greenfield.html}{Senator
Joni Ernst}, a Republican, deployed a similar tactic, calling for six
debates.

``In 2016, numerous Republican Senate candidates ran ahead of Donald
Trump in their home states. That may be more challenging to accomplish
in 2020 given the stamp that President Trump has put on the Republican
Party,'' said Whit Ayers, a veteran Republican pollster.

Image

Strategists in both parties say polarization will make it hard for
Republicans to distance themselves from President Trump.Credit...Anna
Moneymaker for The New York Times

Key Republican officials are rallying to defend the fragile Senate
majority.

Former President George W. Bush, who has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/06/us/politics/trump-biden-republicans-voters.html}{cool
to Mr. Trump's re-election}, headlined a virtual fund-raiser at the end
of June for the National Republican Senatorial Committee. And former
House Speaker Paul Ryan, who had regular disagreements with Mr. Trump,
held a fund-raising call last Monday to raise money for Representative
Roger Marshall, who is running for a Senate seat in Kansas and faces a
primary against Kris Kobach, an anti-immigration crusader. Mainstream
Republicans warn that Mr. Kobach's nomination could cost the party the
seat.

And last month, John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 Senate Republican,
held a private call pitching the Republican Jewish Coalition board,
which counts some of the party's most generous contributors as members.

``It's time to wake up and get off the sidelines,'' Brad Todd, a
Republican strategist working on Senate races, said of his party's
donors, arguing there was ``no need to redirect'' money away from the
White House.

``What needs to happen,'' Mr. Todd said, ``is Republican donors need to
give more.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
