Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Threatens to Send
Federal Law Enforcement Forces to More Cities

\url{https://nyti.ms/3joPGPZ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-threatens-to-send-federal-law-enforcement-forces-to-more-cities}{%
\section{Trump Threatens to Send Federal Law Enforcement Forces to More
Cities}\label{trump-threatens-to-send-federal-law-enforcement-forces-to-more-cities}}

As federal agents patrol Portland and head to Chicago, Democrats call
the president's plan ``an American crisis,'' barely 100 days before the
election.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/20/us/20dc-unrest-feds/merlin_174766104_2b39117e-373e-4965-9ac0-e053f5439e59-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-zolan-kanno-youngs/author-zolan-kanno-youngs-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/monica-davey}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/10/multimedia/author-monica-davey/author-monica-davey-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter
Baker},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/zolan-kanno-youngs}{Zolan
Kanno-Youngs} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/monica-davey}{Monica Davey}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 20, 2020Updated July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump plans to deploy
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/30/nyregion/nypd-protester-van.html}{federal
law enforcement} to Chicago and threatened on Monday to send agents to
other major cities --- all controlled by Democrats.

Governors and other officials reacted angrily to the president's move,
calling it an election-year ploy as they squared off over crime, civil
liberties and local control that has spread from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/20/us/portland-protests-navy-christopher-david.html}{Portland},
Ore., across the country.

With camouflage-clad agents already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/18/us/portland-protests.html}{sweeping
through the streets of Portland}, more units were poised to head to
Chicago, and Mr. Trump suggested that he would follow suit in New York,
Philadelphia, Detroit and other urban centers. Governors and other
officials compared his actions to authoritarianism and vowed to pursue
legislation or lawsuits to stop him.

The president cast the confrontation in overtly political terms as he
seeks an issue that would gain traction with voters at a time when many
of his own supporters have soured on his leadership amid a deadly
pandemic and economic collapse. Trailing badly in the polls with just
over 100 days until the election in November, Mr. Trump assailed the
``liberal Democrats'' running American cities and tied the issue to his
presumptive fall opponent, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

``I'm going to do something --- that, I can tell you,'' Mr. Trump told
reporters in the Oval Office. ``Because we're not going to let New York
and Chicago and Philadelphia and Detroit and Baltimore and all of these
--- Oakland is a mess. We're not going to let this happen in our
country. All run by liberal Democrats.''

The president portrayed the nation's cities as out of control. ``Look at
what's going on --- all run by Democrats, all run by very liberal
Democrats. All run, really, by radical left,'' Mr. Trump said. He added:
``If Biden got in, that would be true for the country. The whole country
would go to hell. And we're not going to let it go to hell.''

Democrats said the president was the one out of control. Senator Jeff
Merkley of Oregon said he would introduce legislation to limit the role
of federal agents in cities like Portland. ``This isn't just an Oregon
crisis,'' he said. ``It's an American crisis. We need to stop Trump
before this spreads.''

He added, ``We won't let these authoritarian tactics stand.''

Federal agents in Portland have snatched protesters off the streets and
thrown them into unmarked vehicles without explaining why they were
being detained or arrested, according to some of those who have been
seized. Oregon's governor, Kate Brown, has called it ``a blatant abuse
of power,'' and the city's mayor, Ted Wheeler, has called it ``an attack
on our democracy.'' The state attorney general has filed a lawsuit
seeking a restraining order against the federal agents for what she
called unlawful tactics.

The Trump administration now
\href{https://www.chicagotribune.com/news/criminal-justice/ct-chicago-police-dhs-deployment-20200720-dftu5ychwbcxtg4ltarh5qnwma-story.html}{plans
to deploy about 150 Homeland Security Investigations special agents to
Chicago} in the coming days, according to an official directly involved
in the operations. The special agents, known for conducting long-term
investigations into serious crimes like human trafficking and terrorism,
are expected to be in the city for at least 60 days to help combat
violence and would be under the direction of the Justice Department.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Few are denying the city has a violent crime problem. Sixty-three people
were shot in Chicago over the past weekend, 12 of them fatally. The
White House referred questions to the Department of Homeland Security,
which declined to comment, as did the Justice Department.

The Department of Homeland Security has put about 2,000 officials from
Customs and Border Protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
Transportation Security Administration and the Coast Guard on standby to
be quickly deployed to cities. At least 200 members of ``rapid
deployment teams'' were sent to Washington, D.C., Portland, Pennsylvania
and Seattle, the agency said this month. Many tactical agents from those
teams from Customs and Border Protection and ICE are now in Portland.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/17/autossell/portland-v1-2/portland-v1-2-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Some cities have seen increased levels of crime since the protests over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/31/us/george-floyd-investigation.html}{George
Floyd's death while in police custody} in Minneapolis, but no president
in modern times has threatened to send in federal law enforcement over
local opposition.

In contrast to the president's claims, many major cities
\href{https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2018/crime-in-the-u.s.-2018/topic-pages/tables/table-1}{remain
safer than they were decades ago, despite the recent uptick} in crime.
Some protesters, including in Portland, have targeted federal property
and officers with rocks and fireworks, and some protests weeks ago
resulted in damage to businesses and looting. But most of the
demonstrations throughout the United States have largely been peaceful.

Mayor Lori Lightfoot of Chicago made clear on Monday that the federal
agents would be no more welcome in her city than they have been in
Portland. ``We don't need federal agents without any insignia taking
people off the street and holding them, I think, unlawfully,'' she said
at a morning news conference before reports of the deployment were
confirmed. ``That's not what we need.''

In a four-page letter to Mr. Trump sent later in the day and obtained by
The New York Times, Ms. Lightfoot said if the president really wanted to
help Chicago, he should enact gun control, do more to curb the
coronavirus and invest in community programs.

``Any other form of militarized assistance within our borders that would
not be within our control or within the direct command of the Chicago
Police Department would spell disaster,'' she wrote.

Trump administration officials said the deployment to Chicago was
separate from the operation in Portland, which ostensibly was to protect
the federal courthouse there.

But the Homeland Security Investigations agents have broad authority to
enforce federal laws in cities, and the Trump administration deployed
them this year to so-called sanctuary cities in an enhanced arrest
campaign against undocumented immigrants. The administration has also
previously deployed federal officials to combat crime in Chicago,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/30/us/chicago-guns-violence-atf-police.html}{including
agents from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives}.

The Department of Homeland Security asserted that it was acting within
the law, pointing to 40 U.S. Code 1315. Chad F. Wolf, the department's
acting secretary, can deputize officers in any department agency, like
ICE, Customs and Border Protection or the Secret Service, ``as officers
and agents for duty in connection with the protection of property owned
or occupied by the federal government and persons on the property,''
according to the law.

But the federal agents would not be limited to guarding federal
property. Under the law, the agents could also conduct investigations of
crimes committed against a federal property or federal officer
throughout the city, Department of Homeland Security officials have
said.

Carrie Cordero, a senior fellow for the Center for a New American
Security, said that the federal statute did provide flexibility to tap
members of various agencies to assist in guarding federal property, but
that it was never intended to send border agents trained to investigate
a drug cartel to crack down on protesters in the streets.

``What's happening is the administration is using D.H.S. to perform
basically a federal policing function, which in my view is
unconstitutional and is certainly not what Congress intended when it
created the department,'' she said.

Stephen I. Vladeck, a law professor at the University of Texas at
Austin, said it was not clear how federal agents could occupy the
streets of a city that is 99 percent not federal property. ``It's of
course the prerogative of the federal government to enforce federal law
and protect federal property,'' Mr. Vladeck said. ``It is not the job of
the federal government to be a general police force for all crimes.''

Governors, mayors and other officials from the cities that Mr. Trump
named on Monday quickly rejected the uninvited intervention of federal
agents.

``It is deeply disturbing that President Trump is once again choosing to
spread hateful rhetoric and attempting to suppress the voices of those
he doesn't agree with,'' said Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan.

John Roach, a spokesman for Mayor Mike Duggan of Detroit, said the city
had not suffered through the problems that others have after Mr. Floyd's
death. ``Detroit is one of the few large cities in the country that has
experienced no fires, no stores looted and never requested the National
Guard during the protests,'' he said. ``Not sure where the president is
getting his information.''

Asked on Monday about whether he had heard the president's mention of
Oakland, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California --- not known for his brevity
--- responded curtly: ``No, and we'd reject it.''

In Philadelphia, the district attorney likened the clash to the fight
against fascism in World War II and threatened to criminally charge
federal agents sent to his city if they exceeded their authority.
``Anyone, including federal law enforcement, who unlawfully assaults and
kidnaps people will face criminal charges from my office,''
\href{https://twitter.com/AlexSilverman/status/1285309263347429376}{said
the district attorney, Larry Krasner}. ``At trial, they will face a
Philadelphia jury.''

Mr. Wolf dismissed the complaints, making clear that he had no intention
to pull back regardless of the objections. ``I don't need invitations by
the state, state mayors, or state governors to do our job,'' Mr. Wolf
said on Fox News. ``We're going to do that, whether they like us there
or not.''

The dispatch of federal agents to cities has become a new front for a
president seeking to regain political momentum heading into a fall
campaign season. Eager to recast protests against racial injustice after
the George Floyd killing into an us-versus-them battle for law and
order, Mr. Trump in recent days has repeatedly blamed Democrats for
countenancing violence and failing to stand up to crime.

Speaking with reporters in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump said federal
agents had ``done a fantastic job'' in Portland, which was ``totally out
of control,'' and he assailed the governor and other officials there for
not welcoming the help. ``These are anarchists,'' he said. ``And the
politicians out there, yes, they're weak, but they're afraid of these
people. They're actually afraid of these people. And that's why they
say, `We don't want the federal government helping.'''

He said other cities were in similar need of federal intervention,
naming some of the nation's largest urban centers. ``How about
Chicago?'' he said on Monday. ``I read the numbers where many people
killed over the weekend. We're looking at Chicago, too. We're looking at
New York.''

The policy closely mirrored the politics. At the same time the president
was weighing the use of federal power, his campaign
\href{https://twitter.com/DonaldJTrumpJr/status/1285325829870956546}{posted
an advertisement online} showing an elderly lady in her home at night
trying to call 911 during a break-in only to be put on hold because the
police had been defunded. ``You won't be safe in Joe Biden's America,''
the ad said.

Peter Baker and Zolan Kanno-Youngs reported from Washington, and Monica
Davey from Chicago. Jill Cowan contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
