Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/well/live}{Live}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/well/live}{Live}\textbar{}How Your Labor Day Blast Could
Make Pandemic Life Worse in the Fall

\url{https://nyti.ms/325jSJv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/spotlight/at-home?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{At
Home}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/travel/route-66.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Cruise
  Along: Route 66}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/dining/sheet-pan-chicken.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Roast:
  Chicken With Plums}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/arts/television/dark-shadows-stream.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Watch:
  Dark Shadows}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/at-home/even-more-reporters-editors-diaries-lists-recommendations.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=at_home_menu}{Explore:
  Reporters' Google Docs}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{how-your-labor-day-blast-could-make-pandemic-life-worse-in-the-fall}{%
\section{How Your Labor Day Blast Could Make Pandemic Life Worse in the
Fall}\label{how-your-labor-day-blast-could-make-pandemic-life-worse-in-the-fall}}

After past holiday weekends caused spikes in Covid-19 cases, public
health officials are urging people to keep gatherings small, outdoors
and masked.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tara-parker-pope}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/10/us/Parker-Pope-Tara/Parker-Pope-Tara-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/tara-parker-pope}{Tara
Parker-Pope}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 6, 2020Updated Sept. 7, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/lens/06well-labor/06well-labor-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For many Americans, Labor Day is a goodbye to summer before children go
back to school and cold weather arrives. But public health experts are
worried that in the midst of a pandemic, the traditional last blast of
summer could translate into disaster this fall.

After the Memorial Day and Fourth of July weekends, cases of Covid-19
surged around the country after people held family gatherings or
congregated in large groups. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the country's top
infectious disease expert, said he wanted people to enjoy Labor Day
weekend but urged them to take precautions to avoid a post-holiday spike
in cases: take the fun outdoors; avoid crowds, keep gatherings to 10
people or fewer; and even outdoors, where transmission risk is much
lower, you still need to wear a mask and practice physical distancing if
you're spending time with people outside your household.

``We've been through this before,'' Dr. Fauci said. ``We see what
happens over holiday weekends, and we want to make sure we don't have an
uptick. What I have been saying is kind of a plea to the American
public, and to the younger people, that they can enjoy themselves over
Labor Day weekend, but please be aware of and adhere to public health
guidelines.''

In terms of daily case counts, the United States over all was in worse
shape going into Labor Day weekend than it was for Memorial Day weekend.
The nation is now averaging about 40,000 new confirmed cases per day, up
from about 22,000 per day ahead of Memorial Day weekend. Dr. Fauci said
that the number of daily cases in the United States was ``unacceptably
high'' and that a spike in Covid-19 infections following Labor Day would
make it far tougher to control the spread of the disease in the fall as
people head indoors.

``We'd like to get a good head start into the fall by getting our daily
cases and our test positivity as low as possible,'' Dr. Fauci said. ``If
we get another resurgence of infections after Labor Day, it will make it
that much more difficult to get that baseline down and make it much more
problematic as we enter the fall season.''

Public health experts said it might be even more challenging to persuade
people to curtail their Labor Day weekend plans, compared with past
holiday weekends, because so many people are suffering from pandemic
fatigue after six months of social-distancing restrictions, closures and
separation from loved ones.

``People are getting tired of taking these precautions and of having
their lives upended,'' said
\href{https://www.bu.edu/sph/profile/eleanor-murray/}{Eleanor J.
Murray,} an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Boston University
School of Public Health. ``They're missing their friends and family, and
everyone wishes things were back to normal. That's totally
understandable, but unfortunately we don't get a say, really.''

Dr. Murray said it was important for people to remember that just one
gathering could lead to spikes in cases that would affect many more
people. She noted that
\href{https://www.newscentermaine.com/article/news/health/coronavirus/maine-cdc-outbreaks-update-147-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-linked-to-millinocket-wedding/97-963b0e7f-af61-4bd2-98f9-8872c9b3ee47}{a
wedding in Maine} with an estimated 65 guests had resulted in 147
infections, including three deaths among people who didn't even attend
the wedding.

Dr. Murray said that if people decided to ignore public health
guidelines this weekend, at the very least they should place themselves
in quarantine for two weeks after the event. ``If those people at the
wedding had said, `This is a risk I'm personally willing to take,' but
after the wedding they had quarantined, then the maximum number of cases
would have been the 65 wedding attendees,'' she said.

Although it's safer to gather outside than indoors, the virus can still
be transmitted in outdoor spaces when people gather in large groups or
stand close to one another for long periods of time. Alcohol can loosen
inhibitions, prompting people to forget about social distancing. Loud
music can prompt people to stand closer and speak louder, which can spew
more viral particles and put you at risk even if you're wearing a mask,
health experts say.

Dr. Murray said that whatever plan you have for the holiday weekend, ask
yourself how you can make it safer for everyone.

``People need to socialize and to see people who are important to
them,'' Dr. Murray said. ``If you were thinking of being indoors, go
outdoors. If you were thinking about being outdoors, spread out further;
wear masks. Think about what you can do to move down the risk
continuum.''

While many people feel safer socializing with family members, a number
of outbreaks have been traced back to family parties that included
relatives from more than one household. In Maryland, 44 percent of the
state's new cases were traced back to family gatherings, compared with
23 percent from house parties and 21 percent to outdoor events,
\href{https://twitter.com/GovLarryHogan/status/1289202959830540289}{according
to a tweet} posted by Gov. Larry Hogan.

After a family gathering of two dozen people in Catawba County, N.C., 14
people who attended became ill, but it didn't end there. ``Before they
started to show symptoms, they continued with their daily lives, such as
going to work or taking a beach trip with other families,'' Jennifer
McCracken, Catawba County's public health director, wrote
\href{https://catawbacountync.gov/news/covid-19-in-catawba-county-a-case-study/}{in
a case study} of the event. ``This set into motion a person-to-person
contact chain that to date has spread COVID-19 to 41 people in nine
different families and eight different workplaces.''

\href{https://medicine.yale.edu/profile/gregg_gonsalves/}{Gregg
Gonsalves,} an assistant professor of epidemiology at the Yale School of
Public Health, said the holiday weekend would multiply the number of
family gatherings around the country.

``A family gathering one weekend in August that sets off cases in a
given county or town is one thing,'' Dr. Gonsalves said. ``One hundred
family gatherings in that county on Labor Day weekend makes it a much
larger epidemiological impact.''

Dr. Gonsalves said concerns about Labor Day celebrations were being
compounded by the fact that there are already
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/covid-college-cases-tracker.html}{large
outbreaks on college campuses}. ``We've had this gigantic migration
event over the past few weeks where students are moving all over the
country from homes to universities,'' Dr. Gonsalves said. ``The relative
calm of places like New York and Connecticut has to be now thought of in
the context of all this big jumble of people crisscrossing the country
to get back to college.''

ABC News posted a video on Twitter showing crowds of people gathering at
a sports bar near the University of South Carolina. The university has
reported more than 1,735 cases since Aug. 1, including 1,461 active
cases, according to
its\href{https://www.sc.edu/safety/coronavirus/dashboard/index.php}{Covid-19
dashboard}.

Brian Pace, a 35-year old psychologist in Phoenix, said he and his
friends in Salt Lake City had talked about getting together for a
socially distanced outdoor barbecue this weekend. He decided it was
smarter to stay home, so he will get takeout from a local barbecue
restaurant, \href{http://www.jlsmokehouse.com/}{JL Smokehouse}, instead.

``I debated with friends,'' Mr. Pace said. ``But in the end, my decision
boiled down to: Will I look back five years from now and say, `That was
pretty stupid,' or regret that I didn't do it? It probably would be that
it was stupid to do that, so we're pretty much hunkered down here. When
I go out, I wear a mask, and it's takeout only.''

Dr. Fauci said he didn't want his words of caution about Labor Day
celebrations to stop people from enjoying the holiday. He said he
personally planned to spend the weekend with his wife, fishing in the
Potomac and having dinner with two friends, for a total of four people,
on his backyard deck.

``You don't want to tell people on a holiday weekend that even outdoors
is bad --- they will get completely discouraged,'' Dr. Fauci said.
``What we try to say is enjoy outdoors, but you can do it with safe
spacing. You can be on a beach, and you don't have to be falling all
over each other. You can be six, seven, eight, nine or 10 feet apart.
You can go on a hike. You can go on a run. You can go on a picnic with a
few people. You don't have to be in a crowd with 30, 40 or 50 people all
breathing on each other.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
