Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/books/review}{Book
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/books/review}{Book Review}\textbar{}Headless Bodies,
Faceless Corpses

\url{https://nyti.ms/3beGj0k}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/crime}{Crime}

\hypertarget{headless-bodies-faceless-corpses}{%
\section{Headless Bodies, Faceless
Corpses}\label{headless-bodies-faceless-corpses}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/22/books/review/22Crime/22Crime-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Marilyn Stasio

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Guido Brunetti, the compassionate police \emph{commissario} in Donna
Leon's new Venetian mystery, \textbf{TRACE ELEMENTS (Atlantic Monthly
Press, 278 pp., \$27),} always turns to the classics to help him with
his tangled thoughts about justice, a concept that, when examined,
always seems to him like vengeance. But he gets no help from those
avenging furies who always show up in the Greek plays he reads. ``We are
fierce and cannot be deviated by man,'' the Eumenides remind him. The
forgiveness that comes naturally to Brunetti will only lead to ``moral
chaos,'' they warn.

But Brunetti can't help himself. Here, his sympathy is stirred by
Benedetta Toso, a young widow dying in hospice care who extracts a
promise from the commissario to investigate the death of her husband and
the origin of the ``bad money'' that led to his fatal motorcycle
accident --- if that's what it was. It becomes a complex case concerning
water; not the canal waters into which Venice is inexorably sinking, but
the city's own precious water supply.

As a native son in a sunbaked culture where a shot of espresso serves as
a blood transfusion, Brunetti is constantly dropping into sidewalk cafes
for a quick jolt to keep him alert. Here, when he stops at a local shop
to get out of the heat, the shopkeeper offers him a glass of water.
``It's the best thing we have,'' the man says. By the end of this story,
Brunetti would agree.

{[}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/07/books/review/by-the-book-donna-leon.html}{\emph{In
her By the Book interview, Donna Leon said, ``Lew Archer is my favorite
detective, and I suppose Tom Ripley is my favorite villain.''}} {]}

The commissario is a dedicated walker, so the street scenes of the city
are a constantly changing montage of vivid sights and sounds, from the
band of Gypsy girls who apply their pickpocketing skills to the handbag
of the mayor's own wife to the crowds of plodding tourists on the
Rialto. Leon's characterizations are always a treat, especially those of
Brunetti's colleagues like Signorina Elettra Zorzi, a secretary whose
skills at computer hacking are such that people speak of her ``as at the
invocation of Pallas Athena.'' This endlessly enjoyable series, with its
deep thoughts about justice and vengeance and charming classical
allusions, can't help making you smile.

♦

Does
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/09/15/books/review/inside-the-list.html}{Kathy
Reichs} really not know that we relish her Temperance Brennan mysteries
because of the gory scenes in the morgue? Guess not, because her latest
book, \textbf{A CONSPIRACY OF BONES (Scribner, 342 pp., \$27),} rations
the forensic anthropologist to a single autopsy. Granted, the case
offers ``the grisly allure of feral hogs and a faceless corpse,'' and
the circumstances are juicy enough for Brennan's mother to ask her,
``You working on this corpse got gnawed by hogs?''

Reichs has always been strong on plot, and this one has plenty of
twists, as Brennan's hunt for villains takes her from a dreamy ashram
called Sparkling Waters to the darkest pockets of the deep web. Here she
finds sinister references to exploited children and secret government
experiments. All the same, it's disheartening to note that before there
was an internet, sleuths were forced to hit the road, knock on doors and
deal with real people, either alive or --- in the life of a forensic
anthropologist --- more often dead.

♦

You want tough? I'll give you tough. Donnie Parascandolo is tough. In
\textbf{CITY OF MARGINS (Pegasus Crime, 309 pp., \$25.95),} William
Boyle's fresh helping of Brooklyn noir, Donnie does ``side work'' for
Tommy ``Big Time'' Ficalora, a small-time mobster in his Bay Ridge
neighborhood. While these side jobs are fairly modest (mostly
``collections and whatnot''), he exceeds the limited duties involved in
collecting a gambling debt by tossing a deadbeat named Giuseppe Baldini
off the Marine Parkway Bridge and into Rockaway Inlet. And did I mention
that Donnie is a cop?

Donnie has no problems being corrupt --- after all, most of the other
cops he knows are crooked, too: ``They're bad a million ways. They
betray any ethics they once had. It's the culture.'' Boyle studies
Donnie and his neighbors with a mixture of affection and despair worthy
of a Bruce Springsteen song. He has a real thing for working-class folks
like Ava Bifulco and Rosemarie Baldini, who work at the same nursing
home, and Rosemarie's son, Mikey, whose whole life changes when he reads
a note in a library book. People like this, they need people like Boyle.

♦

Despite its pretty name, the backcountry hamlet of Wild Thyme where Tom
Bouman has set \textbf{THE BRAMBLE AND THE ROSE (Norton, 208 pp.,
\$25.95)} is no pastoral paradise. Hard drugs like heroin and fentanyl
have found their way to this rural Pennsylvania township, as have the
surly survivalist groups pitched in the deep woods. But civilization and
its refinements have gained a foothold; tobacco chewers are spitting
their chaw juices into upmarket iced tea bottles and farmers are raising
llamas. So it seems as if some repressed primal urges have been
unleashed when a headless and gutless body is found in the woods.
Officer Henry Farrell, Bouman's introspective lawman, is our moral
lifeline in these rustic mysteries, which makes it jarring (and not at
all believable) when he becomes the prime suspect in another murder and
goes on the run. Plot gaffes aside, this is one of those elegiac
regional novels that make you want to pull up stakes and move to the
country.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
