Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Trump White House Meets Its Match
With Barstool Sports

\url{https://nyti.ms/2EDdzDC}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Shindigger

\hypertarget{trump-white-house-meets-its-match-with-barstool-sports}{%
\section{Trump White House Meets Its Match With Barstool
Sports}\label{trump-white-house-meets-its-match-with-barstool-sports}}

Trump admits he regrets some tweets during this fratty, swampy summer,
as nostalgia surges for Trump's first underdog campaign and a more
uncertain future looms.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shawn-mccreesh}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/12/13/reader-center/author-shawn-mccreesh/author-shawn-mccreesh-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shawn-mccreesh}{Shawn McCreesh}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/30/fashion/oakImage-1596134764009/oakImage-1596134764009-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

WASHINGTON --- During the Clinton presidency, The New Republic billed
itself as the in-flight magazine of Air Force One. Former President
Obama loved The Atlantic. President Trump prefers Barstool Sports, the
sophomoric, in-your-face sports blog beloved by bros of all stripes.

The president ---
who\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/trump-nobody-likes-me-walks-out-briefing.html}{noted}
this week that ``Nobody likes me'' --- is always looking for a friendly
ear in the media. But unlike Fox News, the frat-boy blog turned media
empire is known more for its dude content --- ``Man Vs. Wasp Nest - Who
Ya Got?'' reads one recent headline --- and ``Local Smokeshow of the
Day'' gallery of babe photos than for its political coverage.

Barstool's founder, Dave Portnoy, 43, began his first White House
sit-down last week with an appeal. ``Your son's a big fan of our
website. Even before this started, I was trying to get a retweet out of
him for about six months,'' he said. He also complained to a sympathetic
Mr. Trump that Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease
specialist currently grappling with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{a
raging deadly pandemic}, ``is on my `X' list, because every time he
talks and says the country should stay inside, my stocks tank.'' The
interview ended with Mr. Portnoy dialing up his father for a surprise
FaceTime call with the president.

And so groaned the Walter Cronkite-wannabes in Washington, of whom there
are many.

When Mr. Portnoy arrived at the White House complex, young staffers
clamored to take selfies with him. Eric Trump tweeted out a promo photo
of his father being interviewed, writing: ``Two legends!''

Though Mr. Portnoy stated in his interview that he is ``apolitical,'' he
was ahead of the curve on the Trump movement when, in 2015, he announced
he would vote for the reality TV star. ``I don't care if he's a joke,''
\href{https://www.barstoolsports.com/blog/351804/im-officially-voting-for-donald-trump}{he
wrote}. ``I don't care if he's racist. I don't care if he's sexist. I
don't care about any of it. I hope he stays in the race and I hope he
wins. Why? Because I love the fact that he is making other politicians
squirm.''

Mr. Trump, in turn, had become familiar with Mr. Portnoy's signature
pizza reviews and his appearances on Tucker Carlson, where Mr. Portnoy
has expressed uncertainty about Dr. Fauci and decried the overreach of
political correctness.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Together, both men have a history of ugly remarks on sexual assault
\href{https://www.nydailynews.com/sports/football/ny-barstool-sports-portnoy-racism-20200706-6qoawvrjbnce5cygbknhlp2wwe-story.html}{and
race}, and are, to the delight of their respective fanboys, unlikely to
ever apologize. One of those mutual fans is
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/25/style/elon-musk-maureen-dowd.html}{Elon
Musk}, the Tesla magnate and increasingly Trump-aligned brozilla, who
tweeted at Mr. Portnoy in May: ``Please run for office. The politicians
\& unelected bureaucrats who stole our liberty should be tarred,
feathered \& thrown out of town!''

In March, one of Mr. Portnoy's colleagues
\href{https://www.barstoolsports.com/video/2198855/riggs-visits-white-house-grounds-for-coronavirus-interview-with-vp-chief-of-staff-marc-short}{interviewed
the Vice President's chief of staff}, Marc Short. More recently, White
House press aides had been kicking around the idea of a Barstool
interview with Mr. Trump --- a chat on Air Force One was one thought ---
and ultimately settled on last Thursday, the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/sports/baseball/mlb-season-coronavirus.html}{opening
day} of baseball season, before reaching out to Barstool. (Through a
representative, Mr. Portnoy declined to be interviewed for this story.)

As millennials continue to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/14/magazine/spurned-by-espn-barstool-sports-is-staying-on-offense.html}{cord-cut
ESPN} into irrelevance, Trump aides have correctly identified Barstool
Sports and its network of popular podcasts and social media
personalities as a way to reach younger voters, a demographic
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/upshot/poll-trump-defectors-2020-election.html}{with
which} this president is underwater. It is both a cultural fit and an
untapped resource: A Morning Consult
\href{https://morningconsult.com/2020/07/24/barstool-sports-trump-interview-polling/}{poll}
this week stated that ``Barstool sports fans are younger, more
Republican and more politically engaged than the public overall.''

``He's smart to reach out in that regard, it humanizes you,'' said Sig
Rogich, a former media adviser to President George H.W. Bush. In his
time, Mr. Rogich facilitated successful collaborations between Bush I
and the National Collegiate Athletic Association and Sports Illustrated.
``If Trump can create connectivity with the sporting world, it's a plus
for him. There's no downside to it,'' Mr. Rogich said.

Besides, maybe Washington is just the place for a guy like Mr. Portnoy
after all.

There are so many pink-hued Vineyard Vines shorts here in summer that
14th Street often resembles an Alaska salmon run in May. As Jim Webb,
the Democrat and former senator, once
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/05/opinion/05brooks.html}{said}
about the town's defining work of architecture: ``Watching the white
phallus that is the Washington Monument piercing the air like a bayonet,
you feel uplifted.'' (Speak for yourself, dude!)

There is something about working in the White House, in particular, that
inspires Greek life-like behavior. Nicholas Syrett, the author of ``The
Company He Keeps: A History of White College Fraternities,'' said the
similarities stem from ``the degree to which it is both insular and
all-consuming in terms of socializing and work, and the degree to which
they would see themselves against either the world or against their
critics.''

With every administration, White House staffers cling to a culture of
conformity.

The idealistic, progressive bros who rode into town on the waves of
Obama's historic victory were treated as young princes of the city, but
they became wary of a press corps that wanted every little piece of
them. Their modus operandi was to throw house parties, where they could
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/02/magazine/02obamastaff-t.html}{do
keg stands} in peace. When Jon Favreau, then a young Obama speechwriter,
and his buddy Tommy Vietor, then a press aide, played a game of
shirtless beer pong at a Georgetown bar, they got burned when photos
circulated. Politico
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2010/06/are-obama-staffers-overexposed-038374}{huffed}
that the administration's critics saw the aides as behaving like two
``frat boys in the midst of two wars and the Gulf oil spill.''

Mr. Vietor said the culture of the Obama White House doesn't even
compare to what came after it. ``I'd argue that the big cultural problem
with this White House is hiring white nationalists like Stephen
Miller,'' he said. ``Put down the tiki torch and pick up a baseball.''

For Trump aides, the perils of overexposure are well-known. Mr. Miller
and other senior officials have been scorned or yelled at in
restaurants. Some younger aides choose to go incognito altogether,
inventing alternate identities if they meet someone while out --- like
one press wrangler who pretends to be a real estate agent. Others spout
the ultimate D.C. safe words: ``I work in fund-raising.''

Spend a Saturday night with young Trump staffers and one hears basic
things like ``Alexa, play Top 40!'' Vodka shots are administered in
plastic TRUMP PENCE 2016 campaign cups. Nostalgia rules for the days of
the first scrappy campaign, when victory seemed impossible and everyone
doubted them.

A major Trump White House watering hole is Mission Navy Yard, a bar near
the baseball stadium where the Nationals play. One low-level National
Security Council staffer even moonlit as a bartender there. Another spot
is ``The Lot,'' across the Potomac, in Arlington, where aides congregate
with buckets of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/05/style/white-claw-popular-memes.html}{White
Claw}, the boozy seltzer drink.

With Ivanka and Melania as the models for women, the understated Tory
Burch flats and tight ponytails are out; in are the knee-high boots,
party dresses and big blowouts. The Trump White House has a Palm Beach
look. Aides keep stilettos in desk drawers, should they be called into
the Oval.

The men may have it worse. The Washington Post
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/behind-the-chaos-office-that-vets-trump-appointees-plagued-by-inexperience/2018/03/30/cde31a1a-28a3-11e8-ab19-06a445a08c94_story.html}{reported}
that, earlier in the first term, Trump bros vaped and engaged in
``Icing,'' in which Smirnoff Ice bottles are hidden and must be chugged
when discovered, a game familiar to anyone who spent the early 2000s in
a dorm.

A 2011 \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Ggia03nT40}{YouTube video}
of Johnny McEntee, then at University of Connecticut and now a
high-ranking Trump official, landing amazing football trickshots is the
stuff of bro legend in this West Wing.

But there is an upside to this Barstool-Trump match made in bro-town.
Real Trumpologists will note that Mr. Portnoy's friendly interview
yielded something ultrarare from this president: a moment of contrition.

In the interview, Mr. Trump allowed that he does often regret his time
on Twitter (a platform on which he has recently suggested,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/trump-postpone-election.html}{incorrectly},
that he can delay November's election). ``It used to be in the old days
before this, you'd write a letter and you'd say, `This letter is really
bad.' You put it on your desk and you go back tomorrow and you say, `Oh,
I'm glad I didn't send it,''' the president said. ``But we don't do that
with Twitter. We put it out instantaneously, we feel great, and then you
start getting phone calls, `Did you really say this?' I say, `What's
wrong with that?' And you find a lot of things.

``You know what I find?'' said Mr. Trump. ``It's not the tweets. It's
the retweets that get you in trouble.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
