Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}New Energy Secretary Fits
Trend: Cabinet Dominated by Lobbyists

\url{https://nyti.ms/2MrXK3T}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{new-energy-secretary-fits-trend-cabinet-dominated-by-lobbyists}{%
\section{New Energy Secretary Fits Trend: Cabinet Dominated by
Lobbyists}\label{new-energy-secretary-fits-trend-cabinet-dominated-by-lobbyists}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/18/climate/00cli-cabinet/merlin_157682412_a5ef5599-d26b-4cab-bdb3-81367417accb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 18, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want climate news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here
for}}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Climate
Fwd:}}}\emph{, our email newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump likes to say that people in his political
orbit come straight out of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/20/us/politics/president-trump-day.html}{central
casting}, ``tough hombres'' from far beyond the Capital Beltway ready to
roil the swamp.

Increasingly, though, his cabinet is full of lobbyists.

On Friday came the latest lobbyist elevation. Out went Energy Secretary
Rick Perry, the genial former
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/13/us/politics/rick-perry-energy-secretary-trump.html}{governor
of Texas and onetime Dancing with the Stars contestant}. In came his
deputy, Dan Brouillette, who spent much of his career as a senior vice
president of the United Services Automobile Association, a financial
services company, and at the Ford Motor Company.

Mr. Trump called him ``a total professional,'' in
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1185277957436248065?s=20}{a
staff change by Tweet}: ``Dan's experience in the sector is
unparalleled,'' the president said.

The pattern holds throughout the agencies trusted to provide for the
common defense, promote clean air and water, care for public lands and
waters, and safeguard energy supplies and nuclear weapons.

Mr. Trump, who campaigned for president on the oft-repeated pledge to
``drain the swamp,'' initially favored charismatic former politicians
with a flair for the dramatic, like Mr. Perry; or former Interior
Secretary Ryan Zinke, a former member of the Navy SEALs who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/02/us/politics/secretary-ryan-zinke-horse-interior.html}{arrived
to work on}horseback; his first Environmental Protection Agency
administrator, Scott Pruitt, a bellicose Oklahoma attorney general; or
his first defense secretary, Jim Mattis, a former Marine Corps general
whom Mr. Trump introduced as ``Mad Dog.''

All are gone, replaced by lobbyists --- less camera-ready but more
familiar with the inner workings of their agencies, if only because they
spent years trying to influence them.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Trump's rhetoric about draining the swamp, I don't think anyone really
took seriously,'' said Tim LaPira, a professor of political science at
James Madison University who studies Washington's revolving door.

A ProPublica and Columbia Journalism Investigations analysis this week
found Mr. Trump brought in 281 former lobbyists since the start of the
administration. His cabinet now includes
a\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/01/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa-lobbying.html}{former
coal lobbyist running the Environmental Protection Agency}, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/04/climate/david-bernhardt-interior-lobbying.html}{former
oil and gas lobbyist in charge of the Department of Interior,} a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/23/us/politics/mark-esper-secretary-defense.html}{top
lobbyist for the defense contractor Raytheon} leading the Defense
Department --- and, if he is confirmed, an automobile lobbyist at the
Energy Department.

That might seem like business as usual for Americans who accepted
candidate Trump's description of Washington as rife with influence
peddlers and profiteers. But it might actually be worse than usual.
Because of the extraordinarily high rate of turnover that is a hallmark
of the Trump administration, the White House's human resources
professionals have had little time to come up with outside-the-Beltway
replacements for the constant stream of openings, Mr. LaPira said.

Jordan Libowitz, a spokesman for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics
in Washington, a liberal watchdog group, called the proliferation of
lobbyists in Mr. Trump's cabinet deeply worrisome. He pointed to David
Bernhardt, a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/26/us/politics/endangered-species-david-bernhardt.html}{former
oil and gas lobbyist} who served as deputy secretary of the Interior
Department before
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/11/climate/bernhardt-interior-senate-confirmation.html}{he
replaced Mr. Zinke in April as Interior secretary}.

Mr. Bernhardt has been dogged by ethics investigations since he joined
the Trump administration, in large part because of his lobbyist past. In
April the Interior Department's internal watchdog opened an inquiry into
allegations, revealed by New York Times investigations, that Mr.
Bernhardt
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/12/climate/david-bernhardt-endangered-species.html?module=inline}{used
his position to advance a policy pushed by his former lobbying client}.

``The revolving door between industries and lobbying in the
administration has always been a thing, but it is much more pronounced
right now,'' Mr. Libowitz said. ``It raises the question of whether
things are being tilted in favor of industry as a rule, over what may be
in the interest of the American people.''

Elevating officials working as deputies or in the agency's trenches is
nothing new. But Mr. Trump's penchant for simply promoting No. 2
officials to cabinet posts appears to be more a matter of expediency
than a reward for hard work. Deputy secretaries have already been
through grueling Senate confirmations, thus mostly eliminating the
element of surprise in an administration not known for employing a
stringent vetting process.

And for a president who has openly expressed his preference for having
``acting'' secretaries instead of confirmed ones, elevating a No. 2 to
``acting secretary'' avoids running afoul of a longstanding law, the
Vacancies Act, that requires secretary positions to go to ranked
officials in the department who have been confirmed by the Senate.

``The desirability of working for this president and working in these
high profile jobs gets riskier and riskier over time, so I suspect the
pool of applicants has also declined,'' said Kathryn Dunn Tenpas, a
nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Elevating a No.
2, she added, is ``the path of least resistance.''

Mr. Brouillette has a far less flashy history than Mr. Perry, having
served behind the scenes for much of his career. Before working in the
automobile industry, Mr. Brouillette served as the chief of staff to
Billy Tauzin, a former Republican House member from Louisiana who became
a lobbyist himself. Mr. Brouillette did a stint in the Department of
Energy under George W. Bush as an assistant secretary for congressional
affairs.

Others follow similar patterns.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/28/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa-confirmation.html}{Andrew
Wheeler}, a coal lobbyist and longtime Capitol Hill aide, took the helm
of the E.P.A. after Mr. Pruitt
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-trump.html}{resigned}
amid scandal.

At the Department of Veterans Affairs, Mr. Trump turned to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/23/us/politics/senate-confirms-robert-wilkie-veterans-affairs.html}{Robert
L. Wilkie}, an under secretary of defense, when an effort to install his
personal physician failed. And in May Mr. Trump announced his intention
to nominate
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/09/us/politics/patrick-shanahan-defense-department.html}{Patrick
M. Shanahan}, the deputy defense secretary and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/25/us/politics/defense-shanahan-boeing-cleared.html}{former
Boeing executive}, to replace Mr. Mattis. Mr. Shanahan withdrew his name
from consideration after facing questions about a domestic violence
episode in 2010. In July the Senate confirmed Defense Secretary Mark
Esper, the secretary of the Army who
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/25/us/politics/defense-shanahan-boeing-cleared.html}{previously
lobbied for Raytheon}.

The No. 2s sliding into the No. 1 slots don't often appear at rallies or
on the Sunday news programs. But historians noted that their deep
experience as both lobbyists and lower-ranking agency officials means
they know how to operate the levers of the federal government to change
policy.

Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, and William
P. Barr, the attorney general, came to their posts with high levels of
government and private sector experience, replacing predecessors who
came straight from elective politics. Mr. Azar, a former drug company
executive who served in the administration of George W. Bush, succeeded
Tom Price, a former congressman. Mr. Barr succeeded Jeff Sessions, who
came to the post straight from the Senate.

In some cases that has allowed them to affect policy in ways their
predecessors had not --- particularly in energy and environment policy.
Mr. Wheeler, for example, is more
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/21/climate/andrew-wheeler-epa.html}{meticulous
than Mr. Pruitt in following the rules as he rolls back environmental
regulations}. That could lead to fewer losses in court and far more
success.

In the case of Mr. Brouillette, energy analysts said he shares Mr.
Perry's personable style, but is known more for his deep knowledge of
key policy issues related to nuclear weapons, cyber security and energy
exports.

``He's more in the weeds of the management and the policy than Perry,
who's more casting the vision and selling American energy technology and
abundance,'' said Rich Powell, executive director of ClearPath
Foundation, a conservative clean-energy group in Washington.

Charles Untermeyer, who served as director of presidential personnel
under the first President George Bush, said the average tenure of a
presidential appointment was about two years, so the departure of Mr.
Perry at this point in the administration is not unusual. And, he said,
the promotion of seconds-in-command who have knowledge and experience is
commendable.

``We can only applaud this because these are people who know how
Washington runs,'' Mr. Untermeyer said. ``You need people who know how
to make the machinery work.''

For more news on climate and the environment,
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{follow @NYTClimate on Twitter}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
