Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Amid Virus Surge, Republicans Abruptly
Urge Masks Despite Trump's Resistance

\url{https://nyti.ms/3ilIXpG}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{amid-virus-surge-republicans-abruptly-urge-masks-despite-trumps-resistance}{%
\section{Amid Virus Surge, Republicans Abruptly Urge Masks Despite
Trump's
Resistance}\label{amid-virus-surge-republicans-abruptly-urge-masks-despite-trumps-resistance}}

Masks became a political cause for some in the early months of the
pandemic. A growing set of Republican leaders are suddenly pushing
Americans to wear them.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/us/00VIRUS-MASKS-pence/00VIRUS-MASKS-pence-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-bosman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/09/multimedia/author-julie-bosman/author-julie-bosman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/julie-bosman}{Julie Bosman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 1, 2020Updated July 29, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

CHICAGO --- Protesters marched on the State Capitol in Texas, holding
signs declaring that masks equal ``medical tyranny.'' Lawsuits filed in
Florida courts argue that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{mask}
laws violate constitutional rights. President Trump mocked former Vice
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for wearing a mask and has rarely worn one
himself.

But even as some conservatives and libertarians have made opposition to
masks a political cause, Republican governors and others in their party
are suddenly trying to send a different message as the pandemic has hit
hard in their home states, ending any notion that the coronavirus is not
a real menace.

Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/02/us/politics/pence-covid.html}{Mike
Pence} has abruptly begun regularly wearing and recommending a mask.
Gov. Doug Ducey of Arizona, facing an uncontrolled outbreak of the
coronavirus in his state,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UdDE5AhXlV8}{made a plea this
week}: ``Arm yourself with a mask.'' And Representative Liz Cheney of
Wyoming
\href{https://twitter.com/Liz_Cheney/status/1276591702321647616?s=20}{tweeted
a photograph} of her father, the former vice president, wearing a fleece
vest, cowboy hat and pale blue surgical mask covering his face. ``Dick
Cheney says WEAR A MASK,'' she wrote, adding the hashtag
``\#realmenwearmasks.''

On Tuesday, Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Republican
chairman of the Senate Health Committee, appealed to the president
himself: Wear a mask, Mr. Alexander implored, and end a dangerous
partisan divide over the practice, with some Republicans shunning masks
because Mr. Trump has declined to wear them.

``The stakes are too high,'' Mr. Alexander said at a hearing, ``for this
political debate about pro-Trump, anti-Trump to continue.''

The sudden overtures have followed a surge in coronavirus outbreaks in
several states, a spike in hospitalizations among younger people and a
growing realization that the virus is once again out of control. But
unlike in the earliest months of the pandemic, some of the hardest-hit
areas are in the South and West.

The new entreaties follow months of misinformation, debate and confusion
about the question of wearing a mask. Early in the pandemic, government
officials instructed Americans not to buy or wear masks. In April,
\href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/cloth-face-cover-guidance.html?CDC_AA_refVal=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.cdc.gov\%2Fcoronavirus\%2F2019-ncov\%2Fprevent-getting-sick\%2Fcloth-face-cover.html}{they
revised that guidance}, advising that cloth face coverings were
recommended.

``Aristotle always said, a long time ago, that when you put a message on
a blank slate, that first message is critical,'' Dr. Robert Redfield,
the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said in
an interview on Tuesday. ``When you want to rechannel a message, it's
always a problem.''

State and local officials have carved out their own rules along the way,
making masks mandatory in some places and a mere suggestion in others.

Resistance to masks began with Mr. Trump, who, as the C.D.C. urged
Americans to wear face coverings, stressed that the measure was
voluntary, and said,
``\href{https://www.nytimes.com/video/us/politics/100000007070943/trump-mask-coronavirus.html}{I
don't think I'm going to be doing it}.''

The president has continued to resist wearing a mask and views it as a
``personal choice,''
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/mandatory-mask-rulestrump-insists-personal-choice/story?id=71519019}{his
spokeswoman said} on Monday, a stance that has led many of his
supporters to refuse to wear one, even in cities and businesses where
they are required. Mr. Trump has repeatedly downplayed the severity and
danger of the virus, and some of his supporters have responded with
similar doubts. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump seemed to change his position
amid the shifting public messages from Republicans. ``I'm all for masks.
I think masks are good,'' he told Fox Business in an interview.

``The problem there is that the issue has become a political issue and
people have lost sight of the fact that the enemy is the virus,'' said
Dr. David Persse, the health authority at the Houston Health Department.
``People have decided that the enemy is some sort of a political
agenda.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-02T07:42:09.613Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-34047410}{The
  U.S. reels as July cases more than double the total of any other
  month.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780ec966}{Top
  U.S. officials work to break an impasse over the federal jobless
  benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-2bc8948}{Its
  outbreak untamed, Melbourne goes into even greater lockdown.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Initially, many Republicans had followed Mr. Trump's lead. But the
recent chorus of encouragement on mask-wearing has come from all
directions: on the Senate floor and on social media, from Republicans
who are no longer in office and from those whose states are experiencing
an alarming uptick in coronavirus cases.

On Monday, Gov. Brian Kemp of Georgia posted a selfie wearing a mask
decorated with the University of Georgia's bulldog mascot. ``Wear your
mask, Georgia --- and go Dawgs!'' he wrote.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, who regularly wears a mask in
public, said in Washington this week that there must be ``no stigma''
about wearing masks. ``Wearing simple face coverings is not about
protecting ourselves, it is about protecting everyone we encounter,'' he
said.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/01/us/01VIRUS-MASKS-mcconnell/merlin_173346084_16eee399-de10-4865-ae80-f99a8e27f0a5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Dennis Bonnen, the Republican speaker of the Texas House of
Representatives, has been outspoken on the necessity of mask-wearing in
order to reopen the state's economy.

``It's time to stand up to the mask naysayers who speak loudly but act
irresponsibly,''
\href{https://twitter.com/RepDennisBonnen/status/1275186700306853889}{he
said in a statement} last week.

They have echoed messages from some other Republicans, including Gov.
Larry Hogan of Maryland and Gov. Mike DeWine of Ohio, who routinely wear
them and urge their constituents to do the same. Democratic officials
have overwhelmingly endorsed face masks, arguing for months that they
are a valuable tool in slowing the spread of the virus, particularly
indoors and in crowded places where social distancing is impossible.

``We have been trying to work against the headwinds of partisanship on
face masks,'' Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, a Democrat, said in an
interview on Wednesday.

Most of the public does not appear to have an aversion to masks.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-biden-poll-nyt-upshot-siena-college.html}{In
a New York Times/Siena College poll} published last week, 54 percent of
people said they always wear a mask when they expect to be in proximity
to other people, while another 22 percent said they usually wear a mask.
Just 22 percent said they rarely or never wear a mask.

But pleas to wear masks have not always been received warmly by
constituents. Mr. DeWine said he had struggled to convince the public of
the usefulness of masks in fighting the spread of a highly contagious
virus --- in part because the C.D.C. has been inconsistent in its
guidance.

``We certainly were hindered by some of the health messages coming out
from C.D.C. and others,'' Mr. DeWine said. ``We had mixed messages that
were not helpful.''

In the early weeks of the coronavirus pandemic, the directive from
administration officials, governors and mayors was clear: There is no
need for most people to wear masks.

By the start of February, the C.D.C. issued its first formal guidance on
its website, saying that the agency ``does not currently recommend the
use of face masks among the general public.''

``Seriously people --- STOP BUYING MASKS!'' Jerome M. Adams, the U.S.
surgeon general,
\href{https://twitter.com/Surgeon_General/status/1233725785283932160?s=20}{tweeted
later that month}.

At that time, the mask-wearing guidance rested on several points: that
medical masks needed to be reserved for medical workers, that they may
offer a false sense of security, that they are often improperly worn
and, most important, that they likely would not offer much protection
from the virus.

But evidence grew in February and March that the virus was
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/04/health/coronavirus-symptoms-germany.html}{being
spread by asymptomatic people}, and in April, the C.D.C. changed course,
advising that cloth face coverings were recommended.

``The reality was that it was based on data and science,'' Dr. Redfield
said on Tuesday, adding that as soon as the agency had ``significant''
evidence that asymptomatic transmission was occurring, it moved to
recommend face coverings.

``We believe that wearing a face covering is a critically important
tool,'' he said. ``It's our best weapon to intervene with human-to-human
transmission right now.''

Image

``Wearing a face covering is a critically important tool,'' said Dr.
Robert Redfield, right, director of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.Credit...Pool photo by Al Drago

Local and state public health officials, who have extensive experience
fighting infectious disease, joined the consensus that face masks were
critical in combating the coronavirus.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At the same time, a small but vocal opposition to masks was emerging.

Groups that fiercely opposed restrictions, including stay-at-home orders
and closures of businesses and schools, began holding rallies in state
capitals in April, organizing on Facebook and flouting directives from
health officials to observe social distancing and wear masks.

One group, passing itself off as a government entity called the Freedom
to Breathe Agency,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/28/us/fake-face-mask-exemption-card-coronavirus.html}{sold
fraudulent cards on the internet} that allowed users to claim a medical
exemption to masks.

Some of the anti-mask fury was directed at businesses that required
masks to enter. Bystanders captured cellphone videos of angry mask
skeptics hurling produce in the aisles of grocery stores before storming
out. Employees wearily endured verbal harangues from customers.

Some businesses have lost patience.

Hugo's Tacos, a taqueria in Los Angeles, said this week that it was
temporarily closing its two locations after a barrage of attacks from
customers who refused to wear masks.

``Staff have been harassed, called names, and had objects and liquids
thrown at them,'' \href{https://www.hugostacos.com/}{a message on its
website says}. ``A mask isn't symbolic of anything other than our desire
to keep our staff healthy.''

The message adds, ``Thank you to the majority of our guests who are
always respectful and kind.''

Image

Demonstrators~in Austin, Texas, protested against mandates to wear masks
amid the coronavirus pandemic on Sunday.Credit...Sergio Flores/Reuters

In recent days, as new coronavirus cases climbed, state and local
officials have anxiously looked for ways to tamp down outbreaks. They
have frequently turned to the same tool: face masks.

Governor Newsom, eyeing an explosion of cases in California, instituted
mandatory masking statewide on June 18. In Jacksonville, Fla., where the
Republican convention is expected to be held in August,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/29/us/politics/rnc-masks-convention.html}{city
officials issued an order} on Monday making masks mandatory indoors,
joining scores of cities across the country.

Face masks will soon be mandated in at least 19 states, including New
York, Illinois, Massachusetts and Kansas, whose Democratic governor,
Laura Kelly, on Monday said she would
\href{https://governor.kansas.gov/governor-laura-kelly-announces-masks-must-be-worn-statewide/}{issue
an executive order} requiring their use in public.

Ms. Kelly said that as cases continue to rise in that state, a mask
mandate offered the best route to maintaining public safety while
allowing businesses to remain open.

``I do expect that there will be some who will be outraged by this
order,'' she acknowledged at a news conference.

Some Republicans in Kansas immediately registered opposition, arguing
against a uniform policy for a state with both urban and suburban areas
as well as vast rural expanses, even though the virus is highly
contagious and has affected both densely and sparsely populated
communities.

``A lot of people take their liberty quite seriously --- they prefer to
have education and make informed decisions, as opposed to a mandate,''
said Mike Kuckelman, the chairman of the Kansas Republican Party. ``This
just seems heavy-handed and unnecessary for large portions of our
state.''

In Texas churches last weekend, the tension among conservatives was
evident. At a Sunday service in Dallas, Mr. Pence said masks were ``a
good idea'' and pointedly wore one.

But the night before, at a megachurch in Houston, a well-known pastor,
Ed Young, received applause from the socially distanced congregation
after declaring that masks should be voluntary.

``You can wear a mask, or you can not wear a mask,'' he said. ``Oh my
goodness, tell everybody, you have to wear a mask? We don't do business
that way.''

Image

A restaurant employee checked the temperatures of customers on Sunday in
Miami Beach, Fla.Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York Times

In Palm Beach County, Fla., local officials debated last week whether to
adopt an indoor mask mandate and heard testimony from residents who were
deeply opposed to the measure.

Commissioner Melissa McKinlay said the commenters, even as their
\href{https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2020/06/24/mask-mandate-florida-anger-erupts-coronavirus-vpx.cnn}{speeches
ricocheted around social media}, did not reflect the opinion of most
residents. The mandate unanimously passed.

``The fact that we were spending time --- so much time --- debating
whether or not to wear a mask takes away time from when we should be
debating getting grants to our small businesses or getting testing
done,'' she said. ``Geez, pick your battle. My battle is to keep people
safe. I shouldn't have to argue about whether or not to put a mask on.''

Reporting was contributed by Steve Eder from New York, J. David Goodman
from Houston, Katie Glueck from Leawood, Kan., Patricia Mazzei from
Miami, Melina Delkic from St. Louis, Sheryl Stolberg from Washington,
and Shawn Hubler from Sacramento.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
