Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/business}{Business}\textbar{}A Better Year for Trump's
Family Business (Last Year, That Is)

\url{https://nyti.ms/3fqgGvv}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/multimedia/30trump-disclosure-2/merlin_173990283_6c753136-29ac-4140-acfa-4023fc3455fa-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{a-better-year-for-trumps-family-business-last-year-that-is}{%
\section{A Better Year for Trump's Family Business (Last Year, That
Is)}\label{a-better-year-for-trumps-family-business-last-year-that-is}}

In 2019, the Trump Organization showed improvement over the previous
year. But the company's minimum reported revenues still fell short of
the president's first year in office, his new financial disclosure
shows.

Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla.Credit...Saul Martinez for The New York
Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/steve-eder}{Steve Eder} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-h-keller}{Michael H. Keller}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Before the coronavirus ripped through the country, upending President
Trump's family business and the broader hospitality industry, the
company last year showed modest gains, according to Mr. Trump's annual
financial disclosure report released late Friday.

The disclosure report, which offers the only official public detailing
of the president's personal finances, had been delayed for months after
Mr. Trump received two extensions.

The delay came in part based on questions the Office of Government
Ethics had raised about, among other issues, the value of pro bono legal
work provided to the president by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New
York mayor, according to people with knowledge of the delay.

As the United States economy was humming in 2019, the Trump Organization
reported revenues of at least \$446.3 million, up more than 2 percent
from \$434.9 million, in 2018. In 2017, he reported at least \$452.6
million in revenues.

All told, the report shows that last year's revenues, while an
improvement over 2018, still reflect the toll Mr. Trump's divisive
presidency has taken on his brand.

The president reported assets worth at least \$1.35 billion, down
narrowly from 2018 and 2017.

In a statement, Eric Trump, the president's son and a senior executive
at the company, called it a ``fantastic year for our country and one of
the best years in the history of The Trump Organization.''

While providing no specific historic comparisons for the privately held
company, he described the revenue as ``strong'' and noted that the
company has ``very low levels of debt.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-economy}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates:
Economy}}{Latest Updates: Economy}}\label{latest-updates-economy}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{33h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#kodaks-chief-executive-was-given-stock-options-then-the-share-price-spiked-1000-percent}{Kodak's
chief executive was given stock options. Then the share price spiked
1,000 percent.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{36h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#fitch-ratings-downgrades-its-outlook-on-us-debt}{Fitch
Ratings downgrades its outlook on U.S. debt.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{43h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#us-sanctions-more-chinese-officials-over-human-rights-violations-as-tensions-flare}{U.S.
sanctions more Chinese officials over human rights violations as
tensions flare}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Global}

Over all, the company's golf business performed well --- a number of
properties registered double-digit revenue gains --- and Eric Trump
emphasized that ``our core businesses were up considerably
year-over-year.''

The report also includes the unusual disclosure by the president that
the Office of Government Ethics had pressed him to address the free
legal services provided by Mr. Giuliani over the last two years.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/13/us/politics/giuliani-trump-financial-disclosure.html}{Some
legal} experts had argued Mr. Trump had potentially broken the rules by
not disclosing the gift last year.

``Although we did not believe and do not believe that any pro bono
publico counsel is reportable as a `gift,' at the request of OGE, we
note that as has been widely reported in the media, Rudy Giuliani
provided such pro bono publico counsel in 2018 and 2019,'' the report
says, referring to pro bono legal services and the Office of Government
Ethics.

Normally, if such a gift of free legal services has been provided, the
federal government official is required to disclose the value of the
gift. Mr. Trump declined to do so, with the disclosure report saying
``Mr. Giuliani is not able to estimate the value'' of the services, so
``therefore, the value is unascertainable.''

The disclosure, required every year under federal ethics rules, was
originally due on May 15. The White House blamed the delay on the
coronavirus pandemic, but it also followed conversations between ethics
officials and representatives for Mr. Trump about a draft of the filing,
including the discussions over Mr. Giuliani's free legal work, according
to the people familiar with the matter who were not authorized to speak
publicly.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/06/30/multimedia/30trump-disclosure-3/merlin_171801513_5a7a7dbd-af33-49c4-b0d0-a1f0fe7b65ef-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The 78-page disclosure was the sixth by Mr. Trump since he announced his
candidacy for president in 2015.

Unlike the past six presidents, Mr. Trump has refused to release his tax
returns, leaving additional gaps in the public record of his finances,
and even went to court to block their release. The Supreme Court ruled
in early July that
\href{https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/19pdf/19-715_febh.pdf}{congressional
Democrats could not}, at least for now, see some of the president's
financial documents, likely shielding the records from public view
before the election.

For much of Mr. Trump's presidency, his family business was stuck in
neutral. The family name was stripped from several properties. The
pipeline of potential new deals had dried up. And Mr. Trump's polarizing
politics had generated a red-blue divide among many properties, leaving
his hotel in Chicago struggling, for instance, while his golf club in
North Carolina thrived.

Results were mixed once again last year, according to the disclosure
statement.

Revenues grew about 2 percent at both the North Carolina club, and at
Trump National Doral Miami, the company's biggest money generator. The
resort, which includes a hotel and four golf courses, had been
particularly stung by the divide over the president's politics, as
revenues sagged after his election. Another golf club, at Bedminster,
N.J. --- which Mr. Trump often visits during the summer --- saw revenues
rise by 12.6 percent, while his club in Jupiter, Fla., was up 11.9
percent.

But at Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla., where Mr. Trump often spends
time during the winter months, revenues were \$21.4 million, down 5.5
percent
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/16/us/politics/trump-financial-disclosures.html}{from
2018}, continuing a downward trend from 2017.

At the Trump International Hotel in Washington, just blocks from the
White House, revenues were \$40.5 million, falling just shy of 1 percent
from 2018.

Image

At the Trump Organization's only remaining New York hotel, on Central
Park West, revenue on the commercial space was about the same as
reported for 2018.Credit...Demetrius Freeman for The New York Times

At the company's only remaining New York hotel, on Central Park West,
revenue on the commercial space was between \$1 million and \$5 million,
the same range as reported for 2018. Last year, the company agreed to
downsize the ``Trump'' signs on the premises after some owners of the
adjoining condominium tower complained that the branding was hurting
their property values.

At best, the disclosure provides a general view of Mr. Trump's business
interests. Such statements offer inexact accounting, as dollar amounts
are often reported in ranges, and they do not reflect profits or losses,
making it difficult to assess the bottom line.

The report, for example, does not fully reflect the revenues from a pair
of office towers in New York and California, where Mr. Trump is a
partial owner. Both properties have been a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/12/25/us/politics/trump-businesses.html}{substantial
source of revenue} in recent years, making up for weaknesses in other
business lines.

The financial disclosure report was also a relic of the past long before
it was released. Less than three months into the new year, the pandemic
began wreaking havoc on millions of businesses across the nation. Mr.
Trump's company --- with deep interests in hospitality and commercial
real estate, two of the hardest-hit sectors --- has been no exception,
closing its clubs and resorts, laying off or furloughing workers, and
clipping health care benefits for some.

Even as the company
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/23/us/trump-doral-reopen-coronavirus.html}{reopened
the Doral resort}, a move that was expected to breathe some new life
into the business, new cases of the coronavirus were spiking in
surrounding Miami-Dade County, demonstrating the power of the pandemic
to disrupt any recovery.

Reflecting the turmoil, the Trump Organization sought to reduce or delay
its payments on certain loans from Deutsche Bank, including about \$125
million the company borrowed when it
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-florida-trump/trump-buys-miamis-doral-golf-resort-for-150-million-idUSTRE81R1C620120228\#:~:text=MIAMI\%20(Reuters)\%20\%2D\%20Real\%20estate,of\%20hotels\%20and\%20golf\%20resorts.}{was
buying Doral in 2012}, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
The bank agreed to a break, in line with those offered to other
borrowers, but the Trump Organization concluded that the offer was not
worth taking and turned it down, the people said.

Image

Trump National Doral Miami is the Trump Organization's biggest money
generator.Credit...Scott McIntyre for The New York Times

Real estate analysts have predicted that the hotel sector
\href{https://www.cbrehotels.com/en/about-us/press-center/cbre-hotels-research-forecasts-full-demand-recovery-by-late-20220}{will
not fully recover until late 2023}, and data shows that luxury hotels,
including the seven Trump-branded hotels in the United States, have been
the hardest hit by the continued industry depression.

The disclosure shows the Trump Organization's debt remained unchanged
from the previous year.

Image

The Trump National Doral Miami, which includes a hotel and four golf
courses, had been particularly stung by the divide over the president's
politics, as revenues sagged after his election. Credit...Scott McIntyre
for The New York Times

Eric Lipton contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
