Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Connor Jessup of `Locke \& Key'
Gets His Nails Done

\href{https://nyti.ms/2T0pPlb}{https://nyti.ms/2T0pPlb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Encounters

\hypertarget{connor-jessup-of-locke--key-gets-his-nails-done}{%
\section{Connor Jessup of `Locke \& Key' Gets His Nails
Done}\label{connor-jessup-of-locke--key-gets-his-nails-done}}

An early love of fantasy books comes to fruition for the Canadian actor,
with ``exactly the kind of job I dreamed about.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/23/fashion/23ENCOUNTERS-JESSUP6/23ENCOUNTERS-JESSUP6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/05/multimedia/author-max-berlinger/author-max-berlinger-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/max-berlinger}{Max Berlinger}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LOS ANGELES --- Connor Jessup, 25, a budding teen heartthrob and a star
of the Netflix fantasy series
\href{https://www.netflix.com/title/80241239}{``Locke \& Key,''} was
getting ready for its premiere. But first, he wanted a new nail polish
color.

So on a recent Tuesday afternoon, he walked into
\href{https://www.instagram.com/helennailssalon/?hl=en}{Helen Nails}, a
no-frills salon near his boyfriend's apartment in the Highland Park
neighborhood of Los Angeles. He surveyed the rainbow wall of colors and
narrowed his choice to an inky midnight blue and fire engine red.

``I spend a lot of my time typing, so I'm just looking at them a lot,''
said Mr. Jessup, who clearly isn't afraid of accessorizing with color.
He wore a red-and-blue Eisenhower jacket, faded gray dad jeans and
clunky white sneakers. His rumpled brown mop of hair framed his watery
green eyes and impish grin.

Another color soon got his attention. ``Lovely lavender,'' Mr. Jessup
said playfully. ``The thing that I'm amazed by is that no matter what
color you choose, it kind of goes with everything you own, even if it's,
like, just a contrast.''

Mr. Jessup grabbed the lavender and took it to a nail technician, a
no-nonsense woman seated at station No. 2. She stripped the chipped
cerulean blue from his nails. Then she pushed down his cuticles and
clipped the offending skin away. He grimaced slightly as blood gathered
near his pinkie nail.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/23/fashion/23ENCOUNTERS-JESSUP4/merlin_168501351_3ab3b8ad-0f13-48b8-8838-298a320b8f73-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Image

Credit...Alex Welsh for The New York Times

But it would be worth the pain. The next day he would be the center of
attention at the Egyptian Theater, where he would walk the red carpet in
a roomy green suit alongside his onscreen siblings Emilia Jones and
Jackson Robert Scott.

In ``Locke \& Key,'' which is based on the comic books by Joe Hill and
illustrated by Gabriel Rodríguez, he plays the brooding Tyler Locke, a
teenager who moves into a mysterious mansion where magical keys unlock
alternate realities. Family and friends traveled from his native Toronto
to cheer him on.

``When I was a kid I was profoundly unsporty and I didn't have hobbies,
but I had energy to burn,'' Mr. Jessup said. ``I loved fantasy books:
Harry Potter and Narnia and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/31/arts/television/his-dark-materials-hbo.html}{`His
Dark Materials.'} When I was 10 and I had just started acting, this is
exactly the kind of job I dreamed about.''

The show could be described as family fare with a fantasy slant, but
there are darker themes too. It deftly invokes supernatural elements to
address real-world traumas like death and adolescent angst.

``The show is a beautiful, nuanced exploration of what it means to grow
up, specifically growing up with trauma or grief,'' he said. ``Tyler
very much can't deal with what he's feeling and keeps it all inside. I
understand that.''

Mr. Jessup has had his own share of personal growth. Last year, on his
25th birthday, Mr. Jessup
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/BzE6A9llBf2/}{took to Instagram to
come out as gay}. A new relationship and the fact that his birthday fell
on the same day as Toronto Pride felt like ``a sign from the gay god
above,'' he said.

``I'm a white, cis man from an upper-middle-class liberal family,'' he
wrote in the post. ``Acceptance was never a question. But still,
suspended in all this privilege, I balked. It took me years. It's
ongoing. I'm saying this now because I have conspicuously not said it
before. I've been out for years in my private life, but never quite
publicly.''

Outlets like
\href{https://people.com/tv/american-crime-connor-jessup-comes-out-gay/}{People}
and
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/people/2019/06/25/american-crime-actor-connor-jessup-comes-out-gay/1566558001/}{USA
Today} covered his coming out, and the response was overwhelmingly
positive. At that point, he was best known for starring in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/watching/recommendations/american-crime}{``American
Crime,}'' an ABC anthology series.

Image

Mr. Jessup came out on Instagram on his 25th birthday.~Credit...Alex
Welsh for The New York Times

``I'm not dissing anyone, but a lot of people who are doing press for
gay projects talk about how, like, it's a universal story,'' Mr. Jessup
said, as the technician began painting his nails lavender. ``And that's
all true, of course. But, for me, being gay isn't being straight with a
different title. It's a different experience. Queerness in art, in life,
can give you something, you know?''

While he lives in Toronto, where ``Locke \& Key'' was filmed, Mr. Jessup
has been spending more time in Los Angeles to be with his boyfriend
Miles Heizer, 25, an actor who stars in ``13 Reasons Why.'' The two met
in 2018 when Mr. Jessup acted on an internet crush and messaged Mr.
Heizer on Instagram (a few glasses of wine may have been involved). ``I
guess it could have been worse,'' he said. ``It could have been
Grindr.''

Last weekend, the couple went
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/B8m4GG7lMjV/}{Instagram official} when
Mr. Jessup posted a belated Valentine's Day selfie with Mr. Heizer, with
the caption ``I'm late but I love you.''

Image

Though he lives in Toronto, he has been spending more time in Los
Angeles to be with his boyfriend.Credit...Alex Welsh for The New York
Times

After a second coat of nail polish, Mr. Jessup admired his lavender
nails in the afternoon sun. Next he stopped into
\href{https://www.kitchenmousela.com/}{Kitchen Mouse}, a nearby cafe
with chalkboards and hanging plants, to fill up on caffeine and chat
about his career behind the camera.

He has written, directed and produced several short films including
``Boy,'' and directed a documentary about the Thai filmmaker
\href{https://www.criterion.com/current/posts/5489-mysterious-impressions-connor-jessup-on-apichatpong-weerasethakul}{Apichatpong
Weerasethakul}. ``As I was starting to act, I also started watching
movies and I got really excited about it,'' he said. ``That went in
tandem with learning what acting was. So underneath acting, or I guess
inside of acting, was always this desire to make movies.''

Mr. Jessup noticed the sun was setting, and he needed to make his way to
Hollywood to greet his mother, who had just flown in. A perk of working
for Netflix is that a black S.U.V. was waiting to take him to wherever
he needed to go. To say he was excited would be an understatement.

``She's the kind of person who goes to therapy and after three sessions
is giving advice to the therapist,'' he said. ``She's my gay icon.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
