Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}Where Is Carine Roitfeld Now?
Making Perfume

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Nm3aMV}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

styles Q. AND A.

\hypertarget{where-is-carine-roitfeld-now-making-perfume}{%
\section{Where Is Carine Roitfeld Now? Making
Perfume}\label{where-is-carine-roitfeld-now-making-perfume}}

The longtime editor of Vogue Paris strips down to advertise seven new
scents.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/24/fashion/24ROITFELD1/merlin_150926949_15b01870-eb64-4cbe-909e-a6db66fc1360-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Alyson Krueger

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 22, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

On Tuesday, Feb. 26, the second day of Paris Fashion Week, the city will
wake up to 4,000 posters of Carine Roitfeld. The placards show her
completely naked, looking out a window and making a peace sign with one
hand.

They will be placed in hot spots all over the city. No model, fashion
editor or tourist will be able to escape them. A team has been hired to
put up new posters if the first ones are vandalized or covered up.

Ms. Roitfeld, 64, has long been a ubiquitous force during the shows
here. As the editor in chief of Vogue Paris for 10 years and, later, the
founder of CR Fashion Book, she was a front-row regular. Her parties are
known for being the most exclusive and elaborate, attracting celebrities
like Lady Gaga and Kim Kardashian West.

But in those roles she was still somewhat in the background: an editor
and influencer, not the main event. Now that's about to change.

The posters are intended to introduce, teasingly, Carine Roitfeld
Parfums, a collection of seven ``genderless'' fragrances inspired by
seven fictional lovers from seven cities around the world. ``We had to
build everything ourselves, to make the juice,'' Ms. Roitfeld said.
``Usually people do this as a collaboration but I didn't. I hope people
buy it.''

They will retail for \$285 apiece on Net-a-Porter beginning Monday, May
6 (coincidentally the same day that her rumored longtime rival, Anna
Wintour, hosts the Met Gala). Ms. Roitfeld hopes the perfumes will be
the beginning of a long line of products that will perpetuate her
personal brand and legacy.

We had questions.

\textbf{Tell us about the teaser posters. Are you ready for your nude
photo to be all over Paris?}

The photo was actually taken as a joke. It was two years ago, and my
daughter was just taking photos of me for fun. But then I thought it
might be perfect for this. I asked my son and business partner,
Vladimir, if it was O.K., because sometimes I go too far.

I like to push. I'm not afraid. I'm following in the footsteps of some
notable perfumes. Opium by Yves Saint Laurent. To call something Opium
today would be forbidden. Look at Tom Ford; he had naked people in all
of his pictures. A lot of people refused to put it in the magazine, but
with French Vogue we did. I love the aesthetic.

\textbf{What is the best and worst thing somebody could say about it?}

The best thing somebody could say about it is you have a good body or
you are fearless.

If they say ``I don't like your butt,'' I don't care. When you become a
public figure you get so many butt comments on Instagram. But I don't
want anyone to think I'm pretentious. Of course I'm a bit of an
exhibitionist; that I will accept. But if someone says: ``Who do you
think you are?'' That I would not like.

\textbf{Do you have a favorite Paris Fashion Week memory?}

For the 90th anniversary of Paris Vogue we held the first masked ball. I
copied it after the Truman Capote ball, and I tried to be at that level;
I think we beat it. The girls wore the most eccentric dresses. It was a
dream, dream, dream party. Lara Stone had a huge mask on for the cover
of the issue, and Philip Treacy left with a big poster of her at 2 a.m.

Then when I launched CR Fashion Book at Raspoutine, a nightclub, we had
a vampire ball. It was so exciting because everyone came for me not just
because I was with Vogue. It made me happy because you don't know if you
will disappear.

I remember John Galliano called me on the phone before the party and
said he can't be there, but he might be the vampire that comes and bites
my neck at midnight.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/24/fashion/24ROITFELD4/merlin_150926835_3db4a103-99fb-4ada-bd15-6220ebcbba4e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{What are you most excited about this year?}

What will be the best show? I cannot say that, I have too many friends
in fashion. But of course Chanel is always a dream. Paris Fashion Week
is the greatest. I'm so happy to be home. I know people, and we are
speaking French. It's great.

But of course Paris has changed a lot, and it's now very young and
international. Before people looked like they were attending a meeting
of Congress. Now the new kids come in crazy dressed, and it's much more
fun to look at.

\textbf{Why did you decide to do a perfume?}

I did a lot of collaborations, a lot of magazines, but it was always
something transient. If you don't like a magazine, thank God, there is
another one coming out in three weeks. But for me perfume is a way to
have a legacy. Like Miss Chanel. Chanel No. 5 has been around for almost
100 years.

I've always been very sensitive to smell. I entered a competition one
time to test hundreds of vodkas blindly. I knew which one was which
based on the smell.

\textbf{Why are they modeled after seven lovers?}

I worked 10 years with French Vogue, and I knew with advertising it was
really hard to talk about perfume. If you show the bottle you look like
an advertisement. If you talk about the smell, it's very difficult to
understand smell with words. So with this perfume we decided to have a
story behind the perfume.

Seven is also my lucky number. If I get an extra lover somewhere I
didn't expect I guess I will have to do more, but this is a starting
point.

The lovers of the perfume are just fantasies; I came up with them with
my cup of tea in bed. I'm much more boring than people think I am. I
would love to be like that, to be fun, but I'm really not.

\textbf{Are any of them named after real people?}

Kar-Wai is the perfume for Hong Kong. I'm lucky to know Wong Kar-Wai,
the filmmaker who made the film
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/19/fashion/these-movies-have-good-clothes.html}{In
the Mood for Love}.'' I told him two days ago that he was going to have
a perfume named after him. He said, ``Why?'' and I said, ``Because I
love your name.'' He said, ``I have to tell my wife!'' I told him not to
worry, that it's just my pretend world.

Lawrence, the Dubai perfume, is named after ``Lawrence of Arabia.'' I
discovered all the ways to protect from the sun from that movie. It's my
favorite.

\textbf{Was making perfume harder or easier than you thought?}

I thought it would be cool to make a perfume, but it's not cool. There
are so many rules and regulations to make sure it doesn't burn your
skin. And they change across countries. In some places you can't use
alcohol, but George has weed base in it.

\emph{This interview has been edited and condensed.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
