Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{as-trump-visits-kenosha-hundreds-gather-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}{%
\section{As Trump Visits Kenosha, Hundreds Gather Where Jacob Blake Was
Shot}\label{as-trump-visits-kenosha-hundreds-gather-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}}

Last Updated

Sept. 2, 2020, 8:32 a.m. ET

Sept. 2, 2020, 8:32 a.m. ET

The president offered a conspiracy theory about his Democratic
challenger and made forgiving comments about the teenager charged in the
killings of two protesters. The polls opened in Massachusetts, where
Democrats voted in several hard-fought primaries.

\emph{{[}This briefing has ended.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/02/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{Follow
our latest coverage of the 2020 election}}\emph{.{]}}

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-is-greeted-by-protesters-and-supporters-as-he-visits-wisconsin}{}

  Trump is greeted by protesters and supporters as he visits Wisconsin.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{in-a-rebuke-of-trumps-kenosha-visit-hundreds-gather-at-the-corner-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}{}

  In a rebuke of Trump's Kenosha visit, hundreds gather at the corner
  where Jacob Blake was shot.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{in-kenosha-trump-focuses-on-unrest-not-racism-or-police-violence}{}

  In Kenosha, Trump focuses on unrest, not racism or police violence.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{fact-check-president-trump-took-undue-credit-for-the-relative-calm-that-has-settled-in-kenosha}{}

  Fact Check: President Trump took undue credit for the relative calm
  that has settled in Kenosha.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-compares-officers-who-shoot-people-to-golfers-who-choke-and-floats-baseless-dark-shadows-theory-about-biden}{}

  Trump compares officers who shoot people to golfers who `choke' and
  floats baseless `dark shadows' theory about Biden.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-postal-service-watchdog-found-that-more-than-1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late}{}

  A Postal Service watchdog found that more than 1 million primary
  ballots were mailed late.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{biden-is-expected-to-shatter-records-with-more-than-300-million-raised-in-august}{}

  Biden is expected to shatter records with more than \$300 million
  raised in August.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{trump-has-won-another-delay-in-turning-over-his-tax-returns}{}

  Trump has won another delay in turning over his tax returns.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{a-poll-finds-people-who-consume-conservative-media-are-less-likely-to-wear-masks}{}

  A poll finds people who consume conservative media are less likely to
  wear masks.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{trump-is-greeted-by-protesters-and-supporters-as-he-visits-wisconsin}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-is-greeted-by-protesters-and-supporters-as-he-visits-wisconsin}{Trump
is greeted by protesters and supporters as he visits
Wisconsin.}}{Trump is greeted by protesters and supporters as he visits Wisconsin.}}\label{trump-is-greeted-by-protesters-and-supporters-as-he-visits-wisconsin}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-arriveskenosha/01elections-briefing-arriveskenosha-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

President Trump visited Kenosha, Wis., on Tuesday afternoon, surveying a
city that was thrown into tumult first by a police shooting and then by
the killing of two protesters.

If the president's trip was meant to highlight the issues of law and
order he has made central to his re-election campaign, it was threatened
to be overshadowed by a series of comments he made on Monday. Mr. Trump
likened the police officer who shot Jacob Blake in the back, setting off
the protests, to a golfer who choked on an easy putt. And the president
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/31/us/trump-vs-biden\#president-trump-calls-his-supporters-peaceful-and-defends-a-17-year-old-who-shot-three-people-in-wisconsin}{declined
to denounce a 17-year-old} who was charged with killing two protesters
during a night of unrest in the city last week. The teenager attended a
Trump rally earlier this year.

Mr. Trump toured buildings that were damaged in street violence that
followed the shooting of Mr. Blake and then met with law enforcement
officials to advocate cracking down on demonstrations that get out of
control. But he did not meet with Mr. Blake's family, and described
police violence as just the work of ``bad apples.''

A crowd of Black Lives Matter activists mixed with Trump supporters
gathered in downtown Kenosha, occasionally chanting in each other's
faces and hurling insults as they awaited the president's arrival.

``This is just ridiculous,'' said John Crisman, who drove in from nearby
Paddock Lake, Wis. ``I was just standing here with my sign and some old
lady started telling me that Black lives don't matter, all lives matter.
It's just disheartening to see all this.''

Several dozen of Mr. Trump's fans, wearing red caps and waving American
flags, cheered as the president drove by, then immediately headed back
to their cars.

``How often do you get to see a president?'' asked Dan Dowd of Long
Grove, Ill., as he and his wife, Diane, left the gathering.

He dismissed the protesters' suggestion that conservatives were inciting
violence. ``The right is tolerant --- all the violence is coming from
the left,'' he said, motioning toward a parking lot of cars that had
been burned last week during the unrest. ``There ought to be a way to
express feelings without burning businesses to the ground.''

Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin, a Democrat, had asked Mr. Trump to put off
his visit, but the president proceeded anyway.

The calm was broken when a woman in a pro-Trump hat and a man who said
he was a member of the Proud Boys, a far-right group known for inciting
violence at protests, showed up at a park that has been a hub for
rallies since Mr. Blake's shooting. As the police scrambled to separate
the two from about 100 protesters shouting at them, an
\href{https://twitter.com/nickatnews/status/1300911702373019650?s=21}{officer
sprayed a chemical agent} in the eyes of a documentary filmmaker.

Kenosha police officers
\href{https://twitter.com/NickAtNews/status/1300910722344456194}{pulled
the man and woman from the crowd}and stood between them and protesters
at a gas station before detaining them in a police car and speeding out
of the area. They ordered protesters back to Civic Center Park, but
within a few minutes, protesters were again marching along the street,
halting traffic at several intersections.

Later, a brief skirmish played out in downtown Kenosha between a man in
a Make America Great Again hat and several protesters.

When a protester approached and yelled for the man in the hat to leave,
he took a swing at the man, who dodged the punch and shoved the man to
the ground.

Vaun Mayes, an activist in Milwaukee who was one of people who escorted
the man away, said he had done so in part to keep the message focused on
the protest against police violence and racism.

``They know people are going to react in some kind of way,'' Mr. Mayes
said of people who come to protest sites to argue with protesters. ``And
as soon as people react, the media flies to them.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{Julie
Bosman},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-cooper}{Michael
Cooper} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-bogel-burroughs}{Nicholas
Bogel-Burroughs}

\hypertarget{in-a-rebuke-of-trumps-kenosha-visit-hundreds-gather-at-the-corner-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-a-rebuke-of-trumps-kenosha-visit-hundreds-gather-at-the-corner-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}{In
a rebuke of Trump's Kenosha visit, hundreds gather at the corner where
Jacob Blake was
shot.}}{In a rebuke of Trump's Kenosha visit, hundreds gather at the corner where Jacob Blake was shot.}}\label{in-a-rebuke-of-trumps-kenosha-visit-hundreds-gather-at-the-corner-where-jacob-blake-was-shot}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-kenosha/merlin_176450949_9eeac60f-10d5-4b8f-aaf5-528cc09d9803-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The corner where Jacob Blake was shot turned into a community festival
on Tuesday, led by family members and activists who wanted to promote
community healing, but also to offer a tacit rebuke to President Trump's
visit to Kenosha.

``We know why Trump is here in Kenosha today,'' Tanya McLean, an
organizer of the event, told the crowd of hundreds that had gathered.
``He is here to sow chaos and fear. We reject these attempts to divide
us.''

The president was trying to distract from the failures of his
administration, Ms. McLean added, including the coronavirus crisis,
growing unemployment and ``the state sanctioned violence that denies
Black Americans our right to freedom and a safe and healthy life.''

Those in attendance included Justin Blake, Mr. Blake's uncle, and the
Rev. Jesse Jackson. Mr. Jackson had spent time with the young organizers
in recent days to offer advice on strategy.

``I met with the leadership to convince them to not demonstrate today,''
Mr. Jackson said. ``If they demonstrate, it would be a big mistake.
Trump would use it as a commercial.''

Instead of images of unrest and upheaval, the gathering carried the feel
of a carnival. There were bounce houses for the children and the smell
of grilled meat wafted through the air. There were booths offering
Covid-19 testing, voter registration and reiki therapy. A D.J. played
music.

Justin Blake said that the gathering was focused on the community today
instead of buying into the narrative Mr. Trump was trying to create.

``We don't know what his agenda is. He does,'' Mr. Blake said. ``It's
been racist, it's been stirring up violence of police officers all over
this country to do what they've done to our Black young people and
murder them throughout this country.''

The spot where Jacob Blake was shot while leaning into his car more than
a week ago was now occupied by a white truck with a sign across the
front that read, ``Think Big.''

Asked about Mr. Trump largely ignoring Jacob Blake during his visit to
Kenosha, Justin Blake said that he was not surprised.

``That's our president,'' Justin Blake said. He said that Mr. Trump
``had nothing but foul things to say about African-Americans, in
particular our women.''

He said that he would not let Mr. Trump's focus on other things bother
him.

``That's OK because he has an agenda,'' he said. ``I'm hopeful he can
find his way out the door after this election, and we move forward to
reestablish what this country was supposed to be built on.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-eligon}{John
Eligon}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-kenosha-trump-focuses-on-unrest-not-racism-or-police-violence}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{in-kenosha-trump-focuses-on-unrest-not-racism-or-police-violence}{In
Kenosha, Trump focuses on unrest, not racism or police
violence.}}{In Kenosha, Trump focuses on unrest, not racism or police violence.}}\label{in-kenosha-trump-focuses-on-unrest-not-racism-or-police-violence}}

President Trump used a visit to Kenosha, Wis., on Tuesday to highlight
his law-and-order message, accusing liberal politicians of appeasing or
even encouraging anarchists and rioters in the streets while minimizing
the outrage over police brutality that generated protests.

Mr. Trump toured buildings that were damaged in street violence that
followed the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, last weekend
and then met with law enforcement officials to advocate cracking down on
demonstrations that get out of control. But he did not meet with Mr.
Blake's family and described police violence as just the work of ``bad
apples.''

``Reckless far-left politicians continue to push the destructive message
that our nation and law enforcement are oppressive or racist,'' the
president said during a session with local sheriffs and Republican
political leaders. ``They'll throw out any word that comes to them.
Actually, we should show far greater support for our law enforcement.''

Mr. Trump, who came despite the objections of the Democratic governor
and mayor who said his presence could inflame tensions, met with a
pastor affiliated with Mr. Blake's mother but offered little concern
over the shooting incident, telling reporters who asked about systemic
racism that they should instead be focusing on rioting.

Mr. Blake was shot seven times in the back by the police as he was
trying to break up a disturbance involving two women when the police
arrived, according to his lawyer, and is now in the hospital paralyzed.

``I feel terribly for anybody who goes through that,'' Mr. Trump said
mildly when asked about Mr. Blake, and then said ``it's under
investigation.''

He expressed far more sympathy for police officers, who he said have
been unfairly assailed.

``The people of our country love you,'' he said. As for those involved
in shootings or violence, he said, ``They're under tremendous pressure
and they don't handle it well. They call it choking and it happens.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter
Baker}

\hypertarget{fact-check-president-trump-took-undue-credit-for-the-relative-calm-that-has-settled-in-kenosha}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{fact-check-president-trump-took-undue-credit-for-the-relative-calm-that-has-settled-in-kenosha}{Fact
Check: President Trump took undue credit for the relative calm that has
settled in
Kenosha.}}{Fact Check: President Trump took undue credit for the relative calm that has settled in Kenosha.}}\label{fact-check-president-trump-took-undue-credit-for-the-relative-calm-that-has-settled-in-kenosha}}

At a round-table discussion of community safety in Kenosha, Wis.,
President Trump responded Tuesday to a local official who thanked him
for deploying the National Guard by saying, ``Once they responded and
once we took control of it, things went really well.'' It was an echo of
a
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1300420725837266944}{tweet}
on Monday in which Mr. Trump claimed, ``If I didn't INSIST on having the
National Guard activate and go into Kenosha, Wisconsin, there would be
no Kenosha right now.''

\hypertarget{this-is-false}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\textbf{This is
false.}}{This is false.}}\label{this-is-false}}

It was governors, not the president, who sent the National Guard to
Kenosha. Nor was the presence of guardsmen the sole factor in tamping
down the violence.

On Sunday, Aug. 23, a white officer shot and partially paralyzed
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F24\%2Fus\%2Fkenosha-police-shooting.html}{Jacob
Blake}, a Black man, in front of his children. Protesters, reacting to
the shooting,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F25\%2Fus\%2Fjacob-blake-kenosha-fires.html}{clashed}
with police officers, smashed car windows and set fires and officers
dispersed the crowds with tear gas and rubber bullets.

On Monday, Aug. 24, Gov. Tony Evers of Wisconsin
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fcontent.govdelivery.com\%2Faccounts\%2FWIGOV\%2Fbulletins\%2F29b954d}{authorized
the state National Guard} to support local law enforcement. Protesters
and police continued to clash and city officials later described Monday
as the peak of the chaos and
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.rev.com\%2Fblog\%2Ftranscripts\%2Fkenosha-officials-press-conference-transcript-august-27-police-shooting-of-jacob-blake-update}{``our
big night.''}

A day later, Mr. Trump
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1298414089769750530}{urged}
Mr. Evers to send the National Guard, though he had already done so. Mr.
Evers declared
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fdma.wi.gov\%2FDMA\%2Fwemnews\%2F2020wemnews\%2Fready200825}{a
state of emergency} last Tuesday and increased the number of guardsmen
to 250. Two men were killed and another seriously injured in deadly
shootings. Kenosha County Sheriff David Beth
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.rev.com\%2Fblog\%2Ftranscripts\%2Fkenosha-wi-officials-press-conference-transcript-august-26-protest-shooting}{noted}
the presence of out-of-town counterprotesters that night and said they
``create confrontation'' and ``that doesn't help us.'' Mr. Beth also
said that tactics like blocking off interstate highways and cooperation
from local residents proved to be effective in tamping down the
violence.

\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F27\%2Fus\%2Fkyle-rittenhouse-kenosha-shooting-video.html}{Kyle
Rittenhouse}, a 17-year-old who signaled support for pro-police causes,
was arrested on Wednesday morning. The Justice Department sent about 200
federal agents to the city that night. Protests continued but Mr. Beth
said they were ``very peaceful.''

Mr. Evers again
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fdma.wi.gov\%2FDMA\%2Fnews\%2F2020news\%2F20188}{increased
the number} of National Guard members deployed to Kenosha on Thursday,
Aug. 27. The governors of Arizona, Michigan and Alabama also added
National Guard troops to Kenosha, after Mr. Evers
\href{https://content.govdelivery.com/accounts/WIGOV/bulletins/29c1bf3}{requested}
their assistance as part of a mutual aid compact.

Protests that night were ``much calmer, much safer,'' Daniel Miskinis,
the chief of the Kenosha Police Department, said
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.rev.com\%2Fblog\%2Ftranscripts\%2Fkenosha-officials-press-conference-transcript-august-28}{in
a news conference} on Friday. At the same news conference, Maj. Gen.
Paul E. Knapp, who commands the Wisconsin National Guard, noted that
about 1,000 state guardsmen were on the scene and clarified that it was
the governor who made the final call on the Guard's deployment.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/linda-qiu}{Linda Qiu}

\hypertarget{russians-are-still-targeting-americans-with-disinformation-facebook-and-twitter-say}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{russians-are-still-targeting-americans-with-disinformation-facebook-and-twitter-say}{Russians
are still targeting Americans with disinformation, Facebook and Twitter
say.}}{Russians are still targeting Americans with disinformation, Facebook and Twitter say.}}\label{russians-are-still-targeting-americans-with-disinformation-facebook-and-twitter-say}}

The Russian group that interfered in the 2016 presidential election
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/technology/facebook-russia-disinformation-election.html}{is
at it again}, using a network of fake accounts and a website set up to
look like a left-wing news site, Facebook and Twitter said on Tuesday.

The disinformation campaign by the Kremlin-backed group, known as the
Internet Research Agency, is the first public evidence that the agency
is attempting to repeat its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/18/world/europe/russia-troll-factory.html}{efforts
from four years ago} and push voters away from the Democratic
presidential candidate.

Intelligence agencies
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/politics/russia-china-trump-biden-election-interference.html}{have
warned for months} that Russia and other countries were actively trying
to disrupt the November election, and social media companies remain a
clear target for their meddling. Facebook and Twitter said they were
warned by the Federal Bureau of Investigation about the Russian effort.

While the fake network and site did not reach as big of an audience as
the group's campaigns in 2016, it came with a new wrinkle: The Russians
hired real Americans to write for the website. The fake site, called
PeaceData, also used personas with computer-generated images to create
what looked like a legitimate news organization.

``The Russians are trying harder to hide; they are increasingly putting
up more and more layers of obfuscation,'' said
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/09/technology/ben-nimmo-disinformation-russian-bots.html}{Ben
Nimmo}, whose firm, Graphika, released a report on the fake site. ``But
they are still getting caught.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sheera-frenkel}{Sheera
Frenkel}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-will-visit-kenosha-soon-the-dnc-chairman-says}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-will-visit-kenosha-soon-the-dnc-chairman-says}{Biden
will visit Kenosha `soon,' the D.N.C. chairman
says.}}{Biden will visit Kenosha `soon,' the D.N.C. chairman says.}}\label{biden-will-visit-kenosha-soon-the-dnc-chairman-says}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-thrush-01-12-48/merlin_176423094_514ca78b-ec61-4443-b5d6-306fbe451d16-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said on
Tuesday that Joseph R. Biden Jr. planned to visit Kenosha ``as soon as
possible'' to help calm the city --- and slammed President Trump's trip
there as an attempt to fuel ``hate.''

Mr. Perez, speaking on a conference call with reporters, said Mr.
Biden's team was working on plans for a visit, ``but he wants to make
sure he gets to talk to everyone,'' including the families of two
protesters killed in a confrontation last week.

Mr. Perez, who headed the Justice Department's civil rights division
under former President Barack Obama, cited Mr. Trump's defense of the
teenager accused of killing the protesters as evidence that ``hate has
become mainstream with President Trump's blessing.''

Local officials,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/30/politics/wisconsin-governor-letter-trump-kenosha-jacob-blake/index.html}{including
Governor Tony Evers}, a Democrat, had called for Mr. Trump to cancel or
delay his visit, as Mr. Biden has done.

Earlier in the day, Symone Sanders, a top Biden aide, said in a CNN
interview that he would travel to Wisconsin ``very soon,'' but that he
``doesn't want to do anything that would create a tussle, if you will,
on the ground.''

Janet Napolitano, a former Homeland Security secretary under Mr. Obama
who was on the call, said that Mr. Biden ``won't be there to incite
violence, he won't be there to bigfoot a governor and a mayor'' and he
is not going there ``to save a campaign.''

Mr. Perez also called out Mr. Trump's assertion, during an interview on
Fox News Monday, that police officers who shoot people were comparable
to golfers who ``choke'' when trying to sink a ``three-foot putt.''

``When he isn't lining up his own putt, he is sowing division,'' Mr.
Perez said of the president.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas
Kaplan}

\hypertarget{trump-compares-officers-who-shoot-people-to-golfers-who-choke-and-floats-baseless-dark-shadows-theory-about-biden}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-compares-officers-who-shoot-people-to-golfers-who-choke-and-floats-baseless-dark-shadows-theory-about-biden}{Trump
compares officers who shoot people to golfers who `choke' and floats
baseless `dark shadows' theory about
Biden.}}{Trump compares officers who shoot people to golfers who `choke' and floats baseless `dark shadows' theory about Biden.}}\label{trump-compares-officers-who-shoot-people-to-golfers-who-choke-and-floats-baseless-dark-shadows-theory-about-biden}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-ledeitem/merlin_176422128_ce2ce782-82ec-49d8-9533-3bc92feef7cd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump compared instances of the police shooting people to
golfers who ``choke'' when trying to sink ``a three-foot putt'' when
speaking about the shooting of Jacob Blake during an unrestrained
interview on Fox News late Monday.

The president also floated a vague, baseless conspiracy theory that
powerful people in the ``dark shadows'' were behind Joseph R. Biden
Jr.'s campaign as well as protests in Kenosha, Wis., and other cities,
echoing themes struck by his supporters in the QAnon movement.

\href{https://www.foxnews.com/us/rump-tells-laura-ingraham-in-exclusive-interview-very-stupid-rich-people-supporting-protesters-in-dc-around-country}{Mr.
Trump's remarks} --- which seemed to alarm even his sympathetic
interviewer, Laura Ingraham --- came as Wisconsin officials implored him
to scrap or postpone his visit to Kenosha today, out of concern his
presence could provoke violence and stoke unrest.

In comparable times of crisis, presidents have attempted to ease
tensions, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/biden-trump-protests.html}{Mr.
Biden} has asked protesters on both sides to eschew violence.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/us/politics/trump-kenosha.html}{Mr.
Trump, who has expressed his appreciation for} conservative
counterprotesters --- many of whom have been waving Trump-Pence flags
---\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/us/politics/trump-kenosha.html}{has
not taken that approach.}

At one point in their interview, when Ms. Ingraham asked Mr. Trump who
was behind Mr. Biden's campaign, he replied, ``People that you've never
heard of, people that are in the dark shadows.''

She responded, ``That sounds like a conspiracy theory.''

``There are people that are on the streets, there are people that are
controlling the streets,'' Mr. Trump said. ``We had somebody get on a
plane from a certain city this weekend. And in the plane, it was almost
completely loaded with thugs, wearing these dark uniforms, black
uniforms, with gear and this and that.''

There were ``a lot of the people were on the plane to do big damage,''
Mr. Trump said.

He provided no evidence for his claims. When Ms. Ingraham asked for more
detail, he said the matter was still under investigation, adding, ``I'll
tell you sometime.''

When asked about Mr. Trump's comments in an interview with the North
Carolina news outlet
\href{https://abc11.com/politics/former-vp-biden-on-potential-visit-to-nc-i-promise-you-im-coming/6399535/}{ABC
11} on Tuesday, Mr. Biden said the president ``just continually lies.''

``I mean, come on,'' he added. ``The dark forces? Look, this president,
from the moment he came down the escalator in his fancy hotel in New
York, has been preaching division and hate.''

On Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump was hardly any clearer about his comments.

``I could tell you that I can probably refer you to the person and they
could do it,'' he told reporters before boarding Air Force One bound for
Kenosha. ``I would like to ask that person if it was OK. The person on
the plane said there were about six people like that person or more or
less and what happened is the entire plane filled up with the looters,
the anarchists, rioters, people looking for trouble. The person felt
very uncomfortable on the plane. It is a person you know. I'll see
whether or not I can get that person to speak to you.''

When Ms. Ingraham asked Mr. Trump about
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/08/31/us/st-louis-police-officer-dies/index.html}{violence
toward the police}, the president said that officers in the U.S. were
under siege because they occasionally ``choke'' and make mistakes.

``They can do 10,000 great acts, which is what they do, and one bad
apple, or a choker, you know, a choker, they choke,'' the president
said.

``Shooting the guy in the back many times,'' he continued, referencing
what happened to Mr. Blake, ``I mean, couldn't you have done something
different, couldn't you have wrestled him? You know, I mean, in the
meantime he might've been going for a weapon. You know there's a whole
big thing there, but they choke. Just like in a golf tournament, they
miss a three-foot putt.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/Screen-Shot-2020-09-01-at-9/Screen-Shot-2020-09-01-at-9-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.png}

Ms. Ingraham, who repeatedly interrupted Mr. Trump during their
interview to give him a chance to tone down his comments, tried to stop
him as he was saying the word ``putt.''

``You're not comparing it to golf? Because of course that's what the
media will say,'' she said.

``I'm saying people choke,'' Mr. Trump said. ``You've got a quarter of a
second to make a decision. If you don't make the decision and you're
wrong, you're dead.''

That Mr. Trump would choose to use a golf metaphor is not surprising.
The president, who owns luxury courses around the globe,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/12/politics/trump-exercise-golf/index.html}{has
played more than 275 rounds since taking office,} a far greater rate
than his predecessor, President Barack Obama.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/glenn-thrush}{Glenn
Thrush}

\hypertarget{a-postal-service-watchdog-found-that-more-than-1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-postal-service-watchdog-found-that-more-than-1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late}{A
Postal Service watchdog found that more than 1 million primary ballots
were mailed
late.}}{A Postal Service watchdog found that more than 1 million primary ballots were mailed late.}}\label{a-postal-service-watchdog-found-that-more-than-1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-mailinballots/merlin_173840742_646813c4-7144-460e-a3c1-2261c132477c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

More than one million mail-in ballots were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/postal-service-late-ballots.html}{delivered
to voters late} during the 2020 primary elections, a new report from the
United States Postal Service's inspector general found in
\href{https://www.uspsoig.gov/sites/default/files/document-library-files/2020/20-225-R20.pdf}{an
audit} released on Tuesday, underscoring concerns about the feasibility
of widespread voting by mail in November's general election.

In a survey of mail-in ballots sent during primary elections from June 2
to Aug. 13, the audit found that more than one million were mailed
during the final week of the election, putting those ballots at ``high
risk'' of not making it back to elections officials in time to be
counted.

The investigation comes at a time of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/post-office-vote-by-mail.html}{heightened
scrutiny of the Postal Service}. President Trump has claimed,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/mail-in-voting-foreign-intervention.html}{without
evidence}, that voting by mail is more vulnerable to fraud, and
Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, an ally of Mr. Trump, has made
operational changes that have coincided with a slowdown in mail
deliveries. The situation has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html}{prompted
widespread concern} among Democrats and voting rights groups that the
president is seeking to interfere with the mail to bolster his
re-election chances or sow distrust about the result.

The problems were most pronounced in Kentucky and New York, according to
the report, where a combined 628,000 ballots were sent late.

In 17 states, the audit found, more than 589,000 ballots were sent from
election boards to voters after the state's ballot mailing deadline. And
in 11 states, more than 44,000 ballots were sent from election boards to
voters on the day of, or the day before, the state's primary election.

One troubling finding, investigators noted, came from Pennsylvania,
where 500 ballots were sent to voters the day after the election.

For months, the Postal Service has warned states to change their
deadlines to avoid sending last-minute ballots to voters. An election
expert testified before Congress last week that more than 20 states had
failed to do so, potentially disenfranchising thousands of voters in
November's presidential election.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{biden-is-expected-to-shatter-records-with-more-than-300-million-raised-in-august}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{biden-is-expected-to-shatter-records-with-more-than-300-million-raised-in-august}{Biden
is expected to shatter records with more than \$300 million raised in
August.}}{Biden is expected to shatter records with more than \$300 million raised in August.}}\label{biden-is-expected-to-shatter-records-with-more-than-300-million-raised-in-august}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-biden-money/merlin_176415645_98b249a0-0f82-4076-b34e-6da0a008eca3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} is expected to report a record-breaking haul of donations
for August,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/biden-trump-fundraising-election.html}{raising
more than \$300 million between his campaign and his shared committees}
with the Democratic Party, according to two people familiar with the
matter.

The sum would shatter past monthly records as small donors have poured
money into Mr. Biden's coffers, especially since the selection of
Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate, and big contributors have
given checks that can be as large as \$620,000.

In a sign of the financial momentum behind Democrats, ActBlue, the main
site that processes donations to the party, reported the second-biggest
fund-raising day in its history on Monday, with more than \$35 million
donated. A majority of Mr. Biden's August total came from online
grass-roots donors, according to a campaign official.

The people familiar with Mr. Biden's fund-raising did not know the exact
final figure for the month of August, or how much higher than \$300
million it would be.

The Biden campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Any amount above \$300 million would surpass previous monthly hauls by
candidates of both parties. It is more, for instance, than what Donald
J. Trump
(\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2016/09/trump-august-fundraising-totals-227847}{\$90
million}) and Hillary Clinton
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/09/02/us/politics/hillary-clinton-fundraising.html}{\$143
million}) raised in August 2016 --- combined.

In July, President Trump and the Republican National Committee
out-raised Mr. Biden and the Democrats,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-finance.html}{\$165
million to \$140 million}.

The Trump campaign has not announced its August fund-raising total but
has said it raised \$76 million over its four-day convention last week,
slightly more than the \$70 million the Biden campaign said it collected
during its convention a week earlier.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\hypertarget{trump-has-won-another-delay-in-turning-over-his-tax-returns}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-has-won-another-delay-in-turning-over-his-tax-returns}{Trump
has won another delay in turning over his tax
returns.}}{Trump has won another delay in turning over his tax returns.}}\label{trump-has-won-another-delay-in-turning-over-his-tax-returns}}

President Trump on Tuesday
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/nyregion/trump-taxes-vance-lawsuit.html}{won
another delay} in the long-running legal battle over whether he must
turn over
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/16/nyregion/trump-tax-returns-cy-vance.html}{eight
years of tax returns} to the Manhattan district attorney's office, which
subpoenaed them last year in a criminal investigation focused on Mr.
Trump, his business and his associates.

In a brief order, a federal appeals court in New York said it would
temporarily block a grand jury subpoena issued by the district attorney,
Cyrus R. Vance Jr., a Democrat, while it considers
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cyrus-vance.html}{Mr.
Trump's arguments} that the request was ``wildly overbroad'' and
politically motivated.

The ruling is the latest development in the president's aggressive
effort to keep his tax returns and other financial records out of the
hands of prosecutors, Congress and others --- a dispute that has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/nyregion/donald-trump-taxes-cy-vance.html}{reached
the United States Supreme Court once} and is almost certain to return
there.

With an election looming, the ruling means that, as a practical matter,
prosecutors will not receive Mr. Trump's records for at least another
month, and perhaps longer if the president seeks a review in the Supreme
Court.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/benjamin-weiser}{Benjamin
Weiser} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/william-k-rashbaum}{William
K. Rashbaum}

\hypertarget{primaries-in-massachusetts-pit-progressives-against-establishment-democrats}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{primaries-in-massachusetts-pit-progressives-against-establishment-democrats}{Primaries
in Massachusetts pit progressives against establishment
Democrats.}}{Primaries in Massachusetts pit progressives against establishment Democrats.}}\label{primaries-in-massachusetts-pit-progressives-against-establishment-democrats}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/31/us/politics/31elections-briefing-massachusetts/merlin_176031330_5219201c-e612-4e86-8353-b5ae2ce14685-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The incumbent Senator Edward J. Markey and his challenger,
Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III, are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/31/us/markey-kennedy-massachusetts-senate.html}{headlining
the Massachusetts primary vote} on Tuesday, but their bitter
head-to-head battle is not the only race on the ballot. Voters also will
weigh in on a set of House primaries that have pitted some of the
party's more moderate politicians against a lineup of more progressive
upstarts.

In deep-blue Massachusetts --- where both of the state's senators and
all nine of its representatives are Democrats --- the results of
Tuesday's votes could be a bellwether for the future of the party, and
serve as a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/us/politics/election-primary-results.html}{test
of strength} for the Democratic Party's more progressive wing in
Massachusetts and elsewhere. Polls opened at 7 a.m. Eastern time and
close at 8 p.m.

Seven candidates are running for the seat representing the Fourth
District, the one Mr. Kennedy is vacating. The progressives on the
ballot --- including \href{https://jessemermell.com/}{Jesse Mermell}, a
front-runner who has been endorsed by Representative Ayanna Pressley of
Massachusetts, and \href{https://ihssane.org/}{Ihssane Leckey}, who has
been endorsed by Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota --- might split
the vote, which could present an opportunity for
\href{https://www.jakeforma.com/}{Jake Auchincloss}, 32, a Marine
veteran
\href{https://www.bostonglobe.com/2020/07/31/opinion/globe-endorses-jake-auchincloss/}{endorsed
by The Boston Globe}.

In the Eighth Congressional District, which includes part of Boston,
\href{https://www.robbieforchange.com/}{Robbie Goldstein}, 36, an
infectious disease specialist, has mounted a progressive challenge to
the longtime incumbent \href{https://www.stephenflynch.com/}{Stephen
Lynch}, 65.

And in the First Congressional District in western Massachusetts, the
16-term congressman \href{https://www.nealforcongress.com/}{Richard E.
Neal} --- who, as the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, is one
of the most powerful Democrats in the House --- is facing a challenge
from \href{https://alexmorseforcongress.com/}{Alex B. Morse}, the
31-year-old mayor of Holyoke.

Mr. Neal, 71, has been in Congress since 1989, the year Mr. Morse was
born. Mr. Morse
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/25/us/politics/alex-morse-richard-neal-aoc.html}{has
been endorsed} by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York;
Mr. Neal
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/aponline/2020/08/27/us/ap-us-election-2020-massachusetts-house.html}{has
been endorsed}by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.

It has been a tumultuous race for Mr. Morse, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/23/us/politics/alex-morse-massachusetts.html}{considered
dropping out} several weeks ago after he was accused of inappropriate
advances toward students at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
where he was once a guest lecturer. He opted to remain in the race after
\href{https://theintercept.com/2020/08/12/alex-morse-college-democrats-chats/}{The
Intercept published messages} from some of the students who had lodged
accusations, revealing that they had discussed how they might damage his
campaign.

But none of these races have drawn as much attention as the Senate
contest between Mr. Markey, 74, and Mr. Kennedy, 39, who now is trailing
\href{https://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/2020/senate/ma/massachusetts_senate_democratic_primary-6946.html}{in
the polls}. The two represent different generations of Democratic and
state politics but are running on similar platforms, with each
campaigning as the bold, progressive insurgent.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jacey-fortin}{Jacey
Fortin}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-poll-finds-people-who-consume-conservative-media-are-less-likely-to-wear-masks}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{a-poll-finds-people-who-consume-conservative-media-are-less-likely-to-wear-masks}{A
poll finds people who consume conservative media are less likely to wear
masks.}}{A poll finds people who consume conservative media are less likely to wear masks.}}\label{a-poll-finds-people-who-consume-conservative-media-are-less-likely-to-wear-masks}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-astor-01-13-10/merlin_176308356_355decd8-5765-43e5-bf6e-18477283c946-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A
\href{https://carsey.unh.edu/publication/conservative-media-consumers-views-COVID-19}{new
poll from the University of New Hampshire} found that people who
regularly watched Fox News or listened to conservative talk radio were
significantly less likely to wear face masks than the population at
large.

Among New Hampshire residents who never watch Fox News, 86 percent wear
a face mask every time they are in public, unless they are both outdoors
and socially distanced, according to the survey. Among those who
occasionally watch Fox, that number is 74 percent, and among those who
watch Fox frequently, it is only 50 percent.

The gap was even larger among conservative talk radio listeners. Among
those who never listened, 87 percent said they wore masks; the number
fell to 56 percent among occasional listeners and just 33 percent among
frequent listeners.

The margin of error was plus or minus 3.2 percentage points.

The same pattern held on other indicators of how seriously people were
taking the coronavirus pandemic. Fox News and conservative talk radio
consumers were much less likely to say that they were worried about
their or their family's health, or that the worst of the pandemic was
yet to come.

Eighty-one percent of respondents who never watched Fox, and 76 percent
of respondents who never listened to conservative talk radio, said the
government should prioritize containing the virus over restarting the
economy. But only 12 percent of frequent Fox viewers and 3 percent of
frequent talk radio listeners said the same.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-astor}{Maggie
Astor}

\hypertarget{the-us-chamber-of-commerce-in-a-departure-endorses-23-first-term-house-democrats}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-us-chamber-of-commerce-in-a-departure-endorses-23-first-term-house-democrats}{The
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, in a departure, endorses 23 first-term House
Democrats.}}{The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, in a departure, endorses 23 first-term House Democrats.}}\label{the-us-chamber-of-commerce-in-a-departure-endorses-23-first-term-house-democrats}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/01live-chamberofcommerce/merlin_175895346_33f8a123-e3e2-4c38-b792-9b197e699373-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The United States Chamber of Commerce, the influential and heavily
Republican-leaning pro-business lobby, plans to break with past practice
and endorse 23 first-term House Democrats in the coming weeks, according
to a person familiar with its plans, giving a boost to vulnerable
Democratic incumbents and rankling conservatives.

Among the Democrats the chamber intends to support are Representatives
Joe Cunningham of South Carolina, Abigail Spanberger and Elaine Luria of
Virginia, Antonio Delgado of New York, Kendra Horn of Oklahoma, Abby
Finkenauer of Iowa and Xochitl Torres Small of New Mexico. Each faces a
difficult re-election fight this fall in a district that has
traditionally voted Republican. The imprimatur of the powerful group
would help burnish their claims of bipartisanship in races where
Republican opponents say the Democrats are socialists in the thrall of
party radicals.

The chamber also voted to endorse 29 freshman House Republicans. The
endorsements are likely to be rolled out publicly in the coming weeks. A
spokesman declined to comment on the internal deliberations, which
were\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fthehill.com\%2Fbusiness-a-lobbying\%2Fbusiness-a-lobbying\%2F514528-us-chamber-of-commerce-set-to-endorse-23-house}{first
reported by The Hill}.

As arguably the country's most powerful business organization, the
chamber has disproportionately supported Republican candidates, pumping
tens of millions of dollars into their campaigns.

While the group has endorsed a smattering of Democrats in recent years,
they have represented a tiny fraction of the candidates it has
supported.

But since President Trump took office --- frequently clashing with
Republican orthodoxy on trade and other economic issues --- the chamber
has
made\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2019\%2F02\%2F02\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fchamber-of-commerce-bipartisanship.html}{a
concerted effort to reimagine the way it evaluates candidates} to try to
spur bipartisanship on Capitol Hill, on the theory that doing so would
better serve businesses.

Conservatives have balked at the shift,
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.politico.com\%2Fnews\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F27\%2Fchamber-of-commerce-turmoil-402837}{trying
to derail the endorsement} of the Democrats and criticizing the move
once it became public.

Brad Todd, a prominent Republican strategist working on congressional
campaigns this fall, said in an interview that the chamber was putting
at risk the most significant pro-business measure in recent memory: the
corporate tax cut passed by Republicans in 2017, which Democrats
opposed.

``It is the most hard-fought victory for free enterprise in the last 15
years, and the chamber is an active and willing ally in giving it up,''
Mr. Todd said. ``By endorsing the most vulnerable members of the House
Caucus, they are endorsing the continued majority of Nancy Pelosi.''

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nicholas-fandos}{Nicholas
Fandos}

\hypertarget{trump-and-his-doctor-reject-claims-he-had-a-stroke-last-year}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{trump-and-his-doctor-reject-claims-he-had-a-stroke-last-year}{Trump
and his doctor reject claims he had a stroke last
year.}}{Trump and his doctor reject claims he had a stroke last year.}}\label{trump-and-his-doctor-reject-claims-he-had-a-stroke-last-year}}

President Trump denied on Tuesday that he suffered any mini-strokes when
he was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/17/us/politics/-trump-annual-physical.html}{mysteriously
taken to a hospital} last year and he had his doctor issue a statement
supporting him, but neither gave a fuller explanation for the visit,
which had not been on his schedule.

``It never ends!''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1300811758051954695}{the
president wrote on Twitter}. ``Now they are trying to say that your
favorite President, me, went to Walter Reed Medical Center, having
suffered a series of mini-strokes. Never happened to THIS candidate --
FAKE NEWS. Perhaps they are referring to another candidate from another
Party!''

Mr. Trump did not identify who he believed was making that claim.
``Donald Trump vs. the United States,'' a new book published on Tuesday
by Michael S. Schmidt, a New York Times reporter, said that on the day
of Mr. Trump's trip to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in
Maryland last November, word went out for Vice President Mike Pence to
be on standby to take over the powers of the presidency temporarily if
Mr. Trump had to undergo a procedure that would have required him to be
anesthetized.

The book did not claim that Mr. Trump, 74, had mini-strokes, a detail
that the president volunteered even as he sought to knock it down. He
seemed to be responding not to media reports but a tweet by Joe
Lockhart, a former White House press secretary under President Bill
Clinton, who made no claim but
\href{https://twitter.com/joelockhart/status/130057470125373440}{simply
asked a question based on Mr. Schmidt's book}. ``Did @realDonaldTrump
have a stroke which he is hiding from the American public?'' Mr.
Lockhart wrote.

Dr. Sean Conley, the White House physician, issued a statement of his
own. ``I can confirm that President Trump has not experienced nor been
evaluated for a cerebrovascular accident (stroke), transient ischemic
attack (mini stroke), or any acute cardiovascular emergencies, as have
been incorrectly reported in the media,'' Dr. Conley said,
mischaracterizing news reports.

``The president remains healthy and I have no concerns about his ability
to maintain the rigorous schedule ahead of him,'' Dr. Conley added. ``As
stated in my last report, I expect him to remain fit to execute the
duties of the presidency.''

The White House has said Mr. Trump's unannounced trip to the hospital
last November was simply part of his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/18/us/politics/trump-health-emergency.html}{``regular,
primary preventive care,''} but provided no further details.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter
Baker}

\hypertarget{advertisement-4}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-4}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid5}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-campaign-reaches-a-new-battleground-animal-crossing}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-campaign-reaches-a-new-battleground-animal-crossing}{The
campaign reaches a new battleground: Animal
Crossing.}}{The campaign reaches a new battleground: Animal Crossing.}}\label{the-campaign-reaches-a-new-battleground-animal-crossing}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/multimedia/00xp-bidencrossing/00xp-bidencrossing-articleLarge.png?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It's been a long summer on your Animal Crossing island. You've shaken a
lot of trees and caught a lot of cicadas. You've cornered the Stalk
Market with more turnips than anyone thought possible. You've bought
more furniture from the Nooks than your house can hold.

But former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s campaign thinks you
might want a reminder of news from the real world: a virtual campaign
sign for your virtual yard.

The campaign said it had made four signs available on the platform on
Tuesday, the day autumn started in the Nintendo Switch game. One sign
bears the Biden-Harris logo; others say ``Team Joe'' and ``Joe,'' with
the ``E'' rendered in Pride colors. The fourth carries a stylized image
of Mr. Biden's signature aviator sunglasses.

This is not the first time a political campaign tried to capitalize on a
popular video game. But it may be the first effort to involve this much
wood-chopping, bug-catching and buying of kitchen appliances from
raccoons.

President Trump's campaign was dismissive of the stunt. ``This explains
everything: Joe Biden thinks he's campaigning for President of Animal
Crossing from his basement,'' Samantha Zager, the campaign's deputy
national press secretary, said in an email. ``The Trump campaign will
continue to spend its resources campaigning in the real world with real
Americans.''

But Christian Tom, the director of digital partnerships for the
Biden-Harris campaign, said Animal Crossing ``is a dynamic, diverse, and
powerful platform that brings communities together from across the
world.'' He called the virtual signs an exciting new opportunity for our
campaign to connect with supporters ``as they build and decorate their
islands.''

``We're already looking forward to rolling out more digital swag, voter
education tools and organizing efforts on Animal Crossing and other
platforms,'' Mr. Tom added.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/derrick-bryson-taylor}{Derrick
Bryson Taylor} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/aimee-ortiz}{Aimee Ortiz}

\hypertarget{as-republicans-and-democrats-wage-war-over-voting-rules-three-states-take-bold-steps}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{as-republicans-and-democrats-wage-war-over-voting-rules-three-states-take-bold-steps}{As
Republicans and Democrats wage war over voting rules, three states take
bold
steps.}}{As Republicans and Democrats wage war over voting rules, three states take bold steps.}}\label{as-republicans-and-democrats-wage-war-over-voting-rules-three-states-take-bold-steps}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01elections-briefing-voter-suppression/merlin_175685163_5e798904-abc7-4f8a-9bf4-10984d64e6ef-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Republicans and Democrats are waging a legal trench war over the rules
for casting a ballot in November that may have decisive consequences in
some states. Republicans say they want to tighten voting requirements to
prevent fraud, though experts say fraud is a minuscule election problem.
Democrats favor rules that make it easier to vote.

Monday saw three developments in that legal war, all in states that
could be competitive in the presidential election.

In Texas, the Republican attorney general filed suit to stop the chief
election official in heavily Democratic Harris County --- Houston, to
most people --- from
\href{https://www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/sites/default/files/images/admin/2020/Press/Original\%20Petition.pdf?utm_content=\&utm_medium=email\&utm_name=\&utm_source=govdelivery\&utm_term=}{sending
applications to vote by mail} to two million voters. The filing said the
mailing would create confusion and encourage fraud.

Texas is mired in a deeply partisan battle over who should be able to
cast an absentee ballot in a pandemic, with Republicans largely managing
to defend restrictive state rules. Texas is one of just six states that
prohibit voters worried about getting Covid-19 from casting ballots by
mail instead of in person.

But no law bars county officials from sending applications to voters.
The attorney general nevertheless argued that the mass mailing exceeds
the authority ``implied'' under state law.

In Iowa, national Democrats
\href{https://www.democracydocket.com/cases/iowa-county-absentee-ballot-requests/}{sued
to overturn an order} by the Republican secretary of state that bars
county clerks from sending voters absentee ballot applications that have
been pre-completed with details like voters' names and addresses. Paul
Pate, Iowa's secretary of state, has said that only blank applications
are valid; Republicans argue that making voters fill in those missing
details is an important security measure.

The issue has consequences: Last week, local judges in two Iowa counties
invalidated some 64,000 pre-completed ballot requests that voters had
already submitted, effectively making those voters repeat the process.
Thousands of additional ballot applications that had been sent out but
had not been returned also would be negated. The Democratic lawsuit
argues that county officials have sent similarly completed ballot
applications in past years without objection.

And in Georgia, a federal district judge sided with national Democrats
and
\href{https://www.democracydocket.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/45/2020/07/PI-Order-GA-4-Pillars.pdf}{ordered
an extension} of the deadline by which absentee ballots must be received
to be considered valid. Current rules invalidate any mail ballot
received after the 7 p.m. closing of the polls on Election Day. The
ruling extends that deadline to 7 p.m. on the third day after Election
Day for any ballot that is postmarked no later than Election Day.

Citing the burdens of the pandemic --- and noting that the state
rejected 7,821 ballots as late in the state's June primary election ---
the judge said the risk that valid votes would go uncounted was
considerable.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-wines}{Michael
Wines}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
