Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Live Updates:
\$600-a-Week Lifeline for Jobless Expires as Officials Convene on
Capitol Hill

\url{https://nyti.ms/2D8Ek2l}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 1, 2020, 2:23 p.m. ET

Aug. 1, 2020, 2:23 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{coronavirus-live-updates-600-a-week-lifeline-for-jobless-expires-as-officials-convene-on-capitol-hill}{%
\section{Coronavirus Live Updates: \$600-a-Week Lifeline for Jobless
Expires as Officials Convene on Capitol
Hill}\label{coronavirus-live-updates-600-a-week-lifeline-for-jobless-expires-as-officials-convene-on-capitol-hill}}

Thousands in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures. The virus is
picking up speed in the Midwest.

Right Now

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, said on Saturday
that he had tested positive three days after isolating because he came
into contact with another lawmaker who had tested positive.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3ac56579}{Top officials work to break impasse
  over jobless benefit.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-8796723}{The virus picks up dangerous speed in
  the Midwest, and in areas that had seen success.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-25930521}{Thousands in Berlin protest
  Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-71e54361}{Another U.S. lawmaker tests positive
  for the coronavirus.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-2b88e858}{South Korea arrests the leader of a
  church where the virus spread rapidly.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-42ea2074}{A school opened in Indiana. It had
  to quarantine people within hours.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3bb771a7}{Florida, already reeling from the
  virus, faces a new threat from Hurricane Isaias.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/31/us/31virus-briefing-relief/merlin_175181316_602a1744-c139-44e8-9e19-20e8bd9d39cb-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\subsection{}

Top officials work to break impasse over jobless benefit.

Hours after unemployment benefits for tens of millions of Americans
lapsed, administration officials arrived on Capitol Hill on Saturday
morning for a rare meeting with top congressional Democrats to discuss a
coronavirus relief package and work to break an impasse over new aid as
the American economy continues to shudder.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, who hosted the meeting with Senator
Chuck Schumer of New York in her Capitol Hill suite, emerged after three
hours and said the discussion ``was productive in terms of moving us
forward,'' but they remained far apart on a number of issues. They
declined to offer specifics, but said that staff would meet on Sunday
and that the principal negotiators would again convene on Monday for
another meeting.

``Here we have this drastic challenge and what they were saying before,
is `we're going to cut your benefit,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ``That's, shall
we say, the discussions we're having.''

``This is not a usual discussion, because the urgency is so great
healthwise, financial health-wise,'' she added.

Also in attendance were Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff,
and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. (Mr. Mnuchin observed before
entering Ms. Pelosi's suite that it was ``just another working day in
the Capitol.'')

Among the largest sticking points in the discussion is a \$600 weekly
federal jobless benefit that became a lifeline for tens of millions of
unemployed Americans, while also helping prop up the economy. The aid
expired at midnight as officials in Washington failed to agree on a new
relief bill, but Mr. Meadows and Mr. Mnuchin said there were signs that
the two sides could begin to reach common ground, including on reviving
a federal moratorium on evictions and funding for schools and child
care.

``There's things we agree on. There's things we don't agree on,'' Mr.
Mnuchin said after the meeting. ``We're trying to narrow down the things
we don't agree on. Obviously any negotiation is a compromise.''

Joblessness remains at record levels, with some 30 million Americans
receiving unemployment benefits. More than 1.4 million
\href{https://oui.doleta.gov/press/2020/073020.pdf}{newly filed for
state unemployment benefits last week} --- the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{19th
straight week that the tally had exceeded one million,}an unheard-of
figure before the pandemic.

Nearly 11 percent of Americans have said that they live in households
where there is not enough to eat, according to a
\href{https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/household-pulse-survey/data.html?utm_campaign=20200727mspuls1ccdtanl\&utm_medium=email\&utm_source=govdelivery}{recent
Census Bureau survey}, and more than a quarter have missed a rent or
mortgage payment.

The benefit's expiration will force Louise Francis, who worked as a
banquet cook at the Sheraton Hotel in New Orleans for nearly two decades
before being furloughed last
spring,\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/business/economy/q2-gdp-coronavirus-economy.html}{to
get by on just state unemployment benefits, which for her come to \$247
a week.}

``With the \$600, you could see your way a little bit,'' said Ms.
Francis, 59. ``You could feel a little more comfortable. You could pay
three or four bills and not feel so far behind.''

The aid lapsed as Republicans and Democrats in Washington
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/28/us/politics/coronavirus-relief-bills-house-senate.html}{remained
far apart on what the next round of virus relief should look like}.

Democrats wanted to extend the \$600 weekly payments through the end of
the year, as part of an expansive \$3 trillion aid package that would
also help state and local governments. Republicans, worried that the
\$600 benefit left some people with more money than when they were
working, sought to scale it back to \$200 per week as part of a \$1
trillion proposal and have begun to push the prospect of doing a
short-term package that deals with just a few issues, including the
unemployment insurance benefit.

``They've made clear that there's a desire on their part to do an entire
package,'' Mr. Mnuchin said of Democrats. ``We've made clear that we're
really willing to deal with the short-term issues pass something quickly
and come back to the larger issues so we're at an impasse on that.''

Democrats have rejected a short-term proposal.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus~›}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Alaska

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mo.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Miss.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Md.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ky.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots~›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ede29db66044639aecd12edb0a3b7696a30be7e6/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide~›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ede29db66044639aecd12edb0a3b7696a30be7e6/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{-1}}

The virus picks up dangerous speed in the Midwest, and in areas that had
seen success.

Image

A testing site on Tuesday in Orlando.~Florida is among the states that
continue to report some of their highest daily totals of the
pandemic.Credit...Eve Edelheit for The New York Times

Across the United States, there is a deepening national sense that the
progress made in fighting the pandemic is coming undone and no patch of
the country is safe. Instead, the United States is riding a second wave
of cases, with the seven-day average for new infections hovering around
65,000 for two weeks.

Progress in some states has been mostly offset by growing outbreaks in
parts of the South and the Midwest --- and in cities from Mississippi to
Florida to California that believed they had already experienced the
worst of it.

In Illinois, Gov. J.B. Pritzker sounded an unusually somber note this
past week as he delivered a warning that reverberated across the state:
Even though residents had battled an early flood of coronavirus
infections and then managed to reduce the virus's spread, their
successes were fleeting. As of Thursday, the state was averaging more
than 1,400 cases a day, up from about 800 at the start of July.

``We're at a danger point,'' Mr. Pritzker said in Peoria County, where
the total number of cases has doubled in the last month.

Many states have traced new outbreaks to the loosening of the
economically costly restrictions aimed at stopping the spread of the
virus.

In California, which has had more than 500,000 coronavirus cases, more
than any other state, the reopening has proved disastrous. When the
pandemic was ravaging the Northeast in March and April, California kept
its daily case count around 2,000. The state is now averaging 8,500 a
day.

On Friday, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the nation's top infectious-disease
expert, told Congress he was cautiously optimistic that a safe and
effective coronavirus vaccine would be available by the end of the year
or early 2021, though the federal government's ability to speedily
immunize most Americans was unclear.

The Rio Grande Valley in Texas is suffering through perhaps the worst
current outbreak in the country, with hundreds of new cases and dozens
of deaths a day. In more than half of states, outbreaks continue to
grow. In Missouri and Oklahoma, cases have grown to alarming levels,
with both states now averaging more than 1,000 each day.

Across the country, deaths from the coronavirus also continue to rise.
The United States was averaging about 500 a day at the start of July.
Over the last week, it has averaged more than 1,000 daily, with many of
those concentrated in Sun Belt states.

Houston, the fourth-largest city in the country, has been adjusting to a
new normal where the only thing certain is that nothing is certain.
After cases and hospitalizations seemed to level off and even decrease
in recent days, Harris County on Friday broke a single-day record with
2,100 new cases.

``I think to a certain extent, we saw a spike because people were
fatigued over it,'' said Alan Rosen, who leads the Harris County
Precinct One constable's office. ``They were fatigued over hearing about
it every day. They were fatigued about being cooped up in their house
and being away from people.''

\hypertarget{-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{-2}}

Thousands in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/business/01virus-briefing-protest/merlin_175197072_6c6f2dc3-e3cc-4f60-a729-b3757acafdcb-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

An estimated 17,000 Germans packed the heart of Berlin on Saturday,
defying public health requirements to maintain a safe distance from one
another, or cover their noses and faces, before Berlin police moved to
break up the demonstration against the country's efforts to fight the
spread of coronavirus.

The protest, under the motto ``Day of Freedom'' --- a title shared by a
1935 Nazi propaganda film by Leni Reifenstahl --- was supported by known
neo-Nazi groups and conspiracy theorists, along with Germans who say
they are fed up with the government-imposed restrictions on public life.
Germany enforced a strict lockdown from mid-March that has been lifted
in stages since the end of April, but large public gatherings are still
banned and requirements for wearing masks on public transportation and
in all stores remain.

A majority of Germans support the measures, but public health officials
worry that people are becoming more lax, as the past weeks have seen a
rise in new infections. On Saturday,
\href{https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Situationsberichte/2020-08-01-en.pdf?__blob=publicationFile}{955}
new cases were reported, compared with 580 two weeks ago.

Protesters at the demonstration blew whistles, heckled and jeered anyone
wearing a mask, and carried the red, white and black flag of the
19th-century German Empire. They also carried signs equating the
government-imposed restrictions to the Nazis' forcing Jews to wear
yellow stars. One
\href{https://twitter.com/BenjAlvarez1/status/1289490832815345665/photo/1}{banner},
emblazoned with images of Chancellor Angela Merkel, her health minister
and leading German public health officials, as well as Bill Gates,
demanded: ``Lock Them Up Already!''

\hypertarget{-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{-3}}

Another U.S. lawmaker tests positive for the coronavirus.

Image

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva at the Capitol on Wednesday. He is among
nearly a dozen lawmakers who have tested positive.Credit...Pool photo by
Michael Reynolds

Representative Raúl M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, has tested
positive for the coronavirus three days after isolating because he came
into contact with another lawmaker who had contracted it.

Mr. Grijalva, who has no symptoms, is the 11th lawmaker to test
positive, according to a
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.govtrack.us\%2Fcovid-19\%23legislators}{tally
maintained by GovTrack}.

It is unclear where he contracted the virus, but Mr. Grijalva has been
in self-isolation since Wednesday, when Representative Louie Gohmert, a
Texas Republican who has frequently spurned wearing a mask during the
pandemic, said
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/politics/louie-gohmert-positive-coronavirus-mask.html}{he
had tested positive}. Mr. Grijalva said he had had extended contact with
Mr. Gohmert during a congressional hearing held by the Natural Resources
Committee, the panel that he leads.

``While I cannot blame anyone directly for this, this week has shown
that there are some members of Congress who fail to take this crisis
seriously,'' Mr. Grijalva, 72, said in a statement on Saturday, in what
appeared to be a veiled reference to Mr. Gohmert. ``Numerous Republican
members routinely strut around the Capitol without a mask to selfishly
make a political statement at the expense of their colleagues, staff,
and their families.''

A spokesman for Mr. Grijalva said he would quarantine for two weeks in
Washington, and some of the representative's staff would also be tested.

Mr. Grijalva's diagnosis comes as lawmakers --- and the many aides and
staff members who shuttle in and out of the Capitol daily --- are
grappling with
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/us/politics/gohmert-coronavirus-congress.html}{the
lack of consistent procedures} for protecting one another. Speaker Nancy
Pelosi of California and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the
majority leader, have so far rejected enforcing a rapid-test system for
Capitol Hill
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/01/us/politics/coronavirus-testing-senate-white-house.html}{similar
to the one used at the White House}, particularly given testing
shortages and delays around the country.

In addition to the lawmakers who have tested positive, the virus has
spread among the workers who quietly power the Capitol. At least 27
Capitol Police employees, 33 contractors on a construction site and 25
employees of the Architect of the Capitol have tested positive, and
dozens more have entered voluntary isolation because of exposure,
according to a tally from Republicans on the House Administration
Committee.

Global roundup

\hypertarget{-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{-4}}

South Korea arrests the leader of a church where the virus spread
rapidly.

Image

Lee Man-hee apologized at a news conference in March after his
Shincheonji Church of Jesus was at the center of South Korea's first big
coronavirus cluster.Credit...Pool photo

The leader of a secretive religious sect in South Korea was arrested
early on Saturday on charges of embezzling church money and conspiring
to impede efforts to fight the coronavirus.

The rapid spread of the virus this winter among worshipers of the
Shincheonji Church of Jesus in Daegu, a city in the southeast, briefly
made South Korea home to the world's largest coronavirus outbreak
outside China. As of Friday, more than a third of the 14,300 coronavirus
cases known to the government were members of Shincheonji or their
contacts.

Prosecutors say that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-shincheonji.html?searchResultPosition=1}{Lee
Man-hee,} the church's founder, failed to fully disclose the number of
worshipers and their gathering places. Seven church officials were
indicted last month on the same charge.

Mr. Lee, 88, has also been accused of embezzling 5.6 billion won, or
\$4.7 million, from church funds to build a luxurious ``peace palace''
north of Seoul. The church has broadly denied all the charges against
him. He could face years in prison if convicted.

Intense criticism from the South Korean public
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/world/asia/coronavirus-south-korea-shincheonji.html}{forced
Mr. Lee to apologize} in March.

In a statement on Saturday, the church said that Mr. Lee had never
intended to hamper efforts to control the epidemic, and that he had only
expressed concern over the scale of government demands for worshipers'
data.

``He has emphasized the importance of disease control and urged the
church members to cooperate with the authorities,'' the church said.
``We will do our best to let the truth be known through trial.''

But parents who accused the church of luring and brainwashing their
children with its unorthodox teachings welcomed his arrest on Saturday,
calling Mr. Lee a ``religious con artist.''

Here are some other developments from around the globe:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Kuwait} on Saturday began to resume some commercial flights
  after a five-month suspension. It announced that flights would remain
  suspended from 31 countries, including India, China and Brazil.
  Flights are also still barred from some countries that were once major
  hot spots, such as Spain and Italy, but not the United States, which
  remains a global epicenter. Kuwait, with its relatively small
  population, has one of the highest infection rates in the world. Its
  1,618 cases per 100,000 people is the sixth highest globally,
  according to a New York Times database.
\item
  Prime Minister Boris Johnson of \textbf{Britain} announced that
  lockdown measures that were set to be lifted Saturday would continue
  for two more weeks, as case numbers in the country rise. Restrictions
  remain on indoor performances, casinos, wedding receptions and other
  gatherings, which Mr. Johnson said he knew would come as a ``real
  blow'' to some people. But it was necessary to apply the ``break
  pedal,'' he said, in order to stem the spread of the virus.
\item
  In \textbf{Vietnam}, the city of Danang plans to test its entire
  population for the coronavirus, local authorities said, after dozens
  of cases there showed how the disease can stalk even places that were
  thought to have eradicated the virus. As the country went more than
  three months without reporting any local transmission or even a single
  death from the virus, up to 800,000 domestic tourists flocked to
  Danang, a coastal city known for its golden beaches. Vietnam has now
  recorded three deaths and 558 cases, although many are returnees in
  quarantine.
\item
  As of Saturday morning, \textbf{Mexico}'s confirmed death toll **** of
  46,688 was
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{the
  world's third highest} behind the United States and Brazil.
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{Britain
  ranked fourth}, with 569 fewer deaths. The number of new reported
  infections in Mexico has been climbing since May and topped 8,000 on
  Friday, bringing the country's caseload to nearly 425,000.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Officials in \textbf{Poland} are considering new lockdown restrictions
  after the country reported record numbers of new coronavirus cases for
  three days in a row. The health minister
  \href{https://news.yahoo.com/poland-reports-record-rise-virus-090641415.html}{told
  a local radio station} this could include reducing the number of
  people allowed to attend weddings, according to Reuters. The country
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html\#countries}{has
  reported 46,346 total cases and 3,650 deaths}.
\item
  36 crew members aboard \textbf{a Norwegian cruise ship} tested
  positive for the virus, Hurtigruten, the ship's operator,
  \href{https://presse.hurtigruten.no/pressreleases/33-hurtigruten-crew-members-tested-positive-for-covid-19-3024215}{said
  in a statemment over the weekend}. None of those who tested positive
  showed any symptoms, the statement said. According to the company, 387
  guests who may have been exposed to infected crew members during two
  trips on the ship in July will self-quarantine in accordance to
  Norway's public health regulations.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{-5}}

A school opened in Indiana. It had to quarantine people within hours.

Image

A student at Greenfield Central Junior High School in Indiana tested
positive for the coronavirus on Thursday, the first day back in
classrooms.Credit...AJ Mast for The New York Times

One of the first school districts in the United States to reopen did not
even make it a day before it had grapple with the issue facing everyone
trying to get students back into classrooms: What happens when someone
comes to school infected with the coronavirus?

Hours into classes on Thursday, a call from the county health department
notified Greenfield Central Junior High School in Indiana that a student
had tested positive.

Administrators began an emergency protocol, isolating the student and
ordering everyone who had come into close contact with the person,
including other students, to quarantine for 14 days. It is unclear
whether anyone else got infected.

``We knew it was a when, not if,'' said Harold E. Olin, superintendent
of the Greenfield-Central Community School Corporation, but he was
``very shocked it was on Day 1.''

Hundreds of school districts across the country have
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html}{reversed
course} on reopening plans in recent weeks in response to rises in
infections. Of the nation's 25 largest school districts, all but six
have announced they will start remotely.
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/29/us/teacher-union-school-reopening-coronavirus.html}{Despite
strong objections from teachers' unions}, some in places like Florida
and Texas are hoping to open classrooms after a few weeks if infection
rates fall.

\hypertarget{-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{-6}}

Florida, already reeling from the virus, faces a new threat from
Hurricane Isaias.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/01/business/01floriday-vid/01floriday-vid-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

Florida's Atlantic coast braced for the arrival of Hurricane Isaias on
Saturday after the storm raked parts of Puerto Rico and the Dominican
Republic and has begun to batter the Bahamas.

Preparations for the storm were complicated by the state's battle with
the coronavirus, which could make evacuating homes and entering
community shelters especially risky. Friday was the third consecutive
day that Florida set its record for the most deaths reported in a single
day, according to a New York Times database.

Mr. DeSantis has said that the division of emergency management had been
working at
\href{https://www.floridadisaster.org/sert/eoc-activation-levels/}{its
most active level} since March, ``allowing them to actively plan for
hurricane season even while responding to the Covid-19 pandemic.''

Early in the pandemic, he added, the division created a reserve of
protective equipment for hurricane season, including 20 million masks,
22 million gloves and 1.6 million face shields.

A hurricane watch was in effect early Saturday morning from Hallandale
Beach to south of Boca Raton, and a hurricane warning from Boca Raton to
Brevard County. There could be storm surges up to four feet high.

The storm is then expected to weaken and be off the coast of Georgia and
South Carolina on Monday.

Mr. DeSantis
\href{https://www.wesh.com/article/florida-state-of-emergency-isaias/33482430}{said
on Saturday} that he had declared a state of emergency in every coastal
county up the state's east coast, including Miami-Dade County, which has
been among the hardest hit in terms of new cases of the coronavirus per
capita, as well as deaths.

Mr. DeSantis said he had also received approval for federal assistance
through FEMA from President Trump.

\hypertarget{-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{-7}}

New York colleges scramble to comply with state quarantine rules.

Colleges and universities across New York are enacting hasty plans to
meet state requirements for students arriving from out of state as the
fall semester nears.

With many schools poised to begin in-person instruction in just one
month, some of the state's larger institutions have been forced to put
together complex plans to house students from regions currently fighting
major coronavirus outbreaks.

Plans for letting students back on campus revolve around
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/24/nyregion/ny-coronavirus-states-quarantine.html}{an
order made by Gov. Andrew Cuomo in June} requiring travelers to New York
from high-risk parts of the United States to quarantine for 14 days upon
arrival. As of Saturday, residents of 36 states and territories would
face the mandatory quarantine, based on trends in infection data.

Cornell, which had previously pledged to provide quarantine
accommodations on campus to students coming from states identified by
the order,
\href{https://covid.cornell.edu/updates/20200730-important-updates.cfm}{announced
on Thursday} that it would no longer offer housing to all students
affected. The announcement said that those who could not meet the
requirements should plan to begin the semester through online classes,
but that the university would assist students for whom making housing
arrangements represented a significant hardship.

Critics said the announcement
\href{https://cornellsun.com/2020/07/31/editorial-cornells-inability-to-quarantine-arriving-students-should-concern-you/}{would
force some students} to find space in hotels or short-term rentals just
two weeks before they were scheduled to arrive.

Most colleges have advised students they will be unable to leave their
rooms during quarantines and will face regular medical screenings.
Columbia University
\href{https://roomselection.housing.columbia.edu/}{said} it would
arrange to have meals delivered to dormitories, according to its
website.

Since the list of states identified by the governor's order is informed
by seven-day rolling averages of new infections, new outbreaks in
previously stable states could still force students to make last-minute
travel and housing arrangements to quarantine before classes begin.

\hypertarget{-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{-8}}

Ten people in India die from drinking hand sanitizer after liquor sales
are stopped.

Image

Medical workers testing for coronavirus in New Delhi on Friday.~India
recorded 57,118 coronavirus infections on Saturday, bringing its total
to 1.7 million. Credit...Manish Swarup/Associated Press

Since the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh closed liquor stores
as part of lockdown restrictions about two weeks ago, at least 10 people
have died after consuming alcohol-based hand sanitizer, the police said.

The Indian government started easing a national lockdown in late May.
But many states have reimposed some restrictions, including Andra
Pradesh, where nearly 50,000 new coronavirus cases
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html\#cases}{have
been reported in the last week}.

India recorded 57,118 coronavirus infections on Saturday, the country's
health ministry said, bringing its total to 1.7 million. More than
36,000 people have died.

The police in the state said some people who lost access to legal liquor
started mixing cheap hand sanitizer with water from roadside taps, soft
drinks and milk. The 10 deaths have occurred in the last three days,
mostly among poor residents.

In the town of Kurichedu, a man begging at a temple complained of a
burning sensation in his stomach, and died as he was being taken to a
hospital. Then the number of people complaining of a burning sensation
in their stomach started rising, the police said.

``All of them died after consuming sanitizer,'' said Siddharth Kaushal,
the district's top police officer. ``We are wondering who told these
people that a sanitizer can get them high.''

Hundreds die each year in India from consuming poisonous
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/11/world/asia/india-toxic-alcohol.html}{homemade
alcohol}. In 2015,
\href{https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-33224514}{at least 100
people} in a Mumbai-area slum were killed, and in 2008, in one of the
largest such episodes in recent decades,
\href{https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/chennai/TN-hooch-tragedy-21-cops-suspended/articleshow/3159848.cms?referral=PM}{more
than 170 people} died after drinking an illicit home brew in slum areas
of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.

After India's strict national lockdown lifted in May, reopened liquor
stores were swamped with so many customers that the
\href{https://news.yahoo.com/chaos-outside-liquor-stores-india-eases-virus-lockdown-112326078.html}{police
in some cities had to control the crowds}, according to Agence
France-Presse.

\hypertarget{-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{-9}}

The F.D.A. approves new antibody tests.

Image

An antibody testing site in San Dimas, Calfi., on Sunday. There is not
yet a scientific consensus as to what level of antibodies are needed to
confer immunity, or how long such immunity might last.Credit...Robyn
Beck/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The Food and Drug Administration has authorized the first coronavirus
tests that can give an estimate of the quantity of antibodies present in
a person's blood, the agency
\href{https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/coronavirus-covid-19-update-fda-authorizes-first-tests-estimate-patients-antibodies-past-sars-cov-2}{announced
Friday evening}.

Up until now, the so-called serology tests on the market, also known as
antibody tests, only indicate whether
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/26/health/coronvirus-antibody-tests.html}{Covid-19
antibodies are present in the blood}, indicating that at some point in
the past, the individual had been exposed to the virus.

Many antibody tests
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/04/health/fda-antibody-tests-coronavirus.html}{are
unreliable}. The F.D.A. has had to chase after some manufacturers and
distributors to get them off the market. There is not yet a scientific
consensus as to what level of antibodies are needed to confer immunity,
or how long such immunity might last.

The two new Covid-19 serology tests, the ADVIA Centaur COV2G and
Attelica COV2G, are from Siemens.

Dr. Timothy Stenzel, the director of the F.D.A.'s Office of In Vitro
Diagnostics and Radiological Health, said in a statement, ``Being able
to measure a patient's relative level of antibodies in response to a
previous SARS-CoV-2 infection may be useful as we continue to learn more
about the virus and what the existence of antibodies may mean.''

``There are still many unknowns about what the presence of SARS-CoV-2
antibodies may tell us about potential immunity, but today's
authorizations give us additional tools to evaluate those antibodies as
we continue to research and study this virus.

\hypertarget{-10}{%
\subsection{}\label{-10}}

European stocks gain a sudden allure as the region pins down the virus
better than most places.

Europe has a bad reputation with investors. For years, asset managers
and bank strategists have characterized the region by its
\href{https://qz.com/1544961/the-euro-zone-economy-is-back-on-familiar-ground-slow-grinding-growth/}{anemic
growth rate} and shaky political union.

Now a crisis has turned into an unlikely investment opportunity, as the
region appears to have handled the pandemic better than some other parts
of the world. In the past few months,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/business/europes-markets-are-having-a-moment.html}{European
assets have staged a comeback}.

The euro this week rose to its highest level in more than two years
against the U.S. dollar, and the region's benchmark index, the Stoxx
600, is set for a second straight month of gains greater than those of
the S\&P 500 index, in dollar terms, according to data from FactSet.

The most important reason for this upswing, analysts say, is that Europe
is recording far fewer new cases of the coronavirus. There are still
occasional spikes in Europe, and there are some early signs that the
infection rate is starting to level off in the United States. But there
are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?campaign_id=154\&emc=edit_cb_20200728\&instance_id=20725\&nl=coronavirus-briefing\&regi_id=137662381\&segment_id=34584\&te=1\&user_id=72eee90673e6857ae5a6e83e1981a59a}{about
65,000 new cases each day} in the United States, compared with
\href{https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/cases-2019-ncov-eueea}{fewer than
10,000} across the Atlantic.

Another significant reason for the increase is politics. When European
leaders reached an agreement last week on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/20/world/europe/eu-stimulus-coronavirus.html}{a
750 billion euro, or \$888 billion, recovery fund}, it wasn't the size
of the deal that impressed investors, but the fact that it happened
after four long nights of negotiations.

The decision to raise money collectively and give grants to the
countries hit hardest by the pandemic indicated that there is some
political will left to further the project that created the euro two
decades ago, despite the exit of Britain from the European Union,
\href{https://www.ft.com/content/92ec7bc4-9d8f-11e9-9c06-a4640c9feebb}{budget
fights with Italy} and concerns about the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/16/world/europe/hungary-coronavirus-orban.html}{dismantling
of democracy in Hungary}.

\hypertarget{-11}{%
\subsection{}\label{-11}}

Controlling screen time in the face of a pandemic.

With remote work, remote school, remote camp and everything else remote,
screens are dominating our lives. Here are some ways of thinking about
it, whether you want to cut back or simply come to terms with the
increased usage.

Reporting was contributed by Hannah Beech, Julie Bosman, Choe Sang-Hun,
Emily Cochrane, Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio, Melissa Eddy, Manny
Fernandez, Thomas Fuller, Johnny Diaz, Jeffrey Gettleman, Jason
Gutierrez, Shawn Hubler, Mike Ives, Sheila Kaplan, Zach Montague,
Liliana Michelena, Eshe Nelson, Matt Phillips, Kai Schultz, Eliza
Shapiro and Sameer Yasir.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
