Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Ukraine Knew of Aid Freeze
by Early August, Undermining Trump Defense

\url{https://nyti.ms/2p5lVwc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{ukraine-knew-of-aid-freeze-by-early-august-undermining-trump-defense}{%
\section{Ukraine Knew of Aid Freeze by Early August, Undermining Trump
Defense}\label{ukraine-knew-of-aid-freeze-by-early-august-undermining-trump-defense}}

Top officials were told in early August about the delay of \$391 million
in security assistance, undercutting a chief argument President Trump
has used to deny any quid pro quo.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/21/us/politics/21dc-aid/merlin_161404053_9da7cad5-8bca-4c3d-853c-97a462cdf616-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/andrew-e-kramer}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/15/multimedia/author-andrew-e-kramer/author-andrew-e-kramer-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kenneth-p-vogel/author-kenneth-p-vogel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/andrew-e-kramer}{Andrew E. Kramer}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 23, 2019Updated Oct. 24, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

KIEV, Ukraine --- To Democrats who say that President Trump's decision
to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/24/world/europe/ukraine-war-impeachment.html}{freeze
\$391 million in military aid}was intended to bully Ukraine's leader
into carrying out investigations for Mr. Trump's political benefit, the
president and his allies have had a simple response: There was no
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/18/us/politics/quid-pro-quo-mean.html}{quid
pro quo} because the Ukrainians did not know assistance had been
blocked.

But then on Tuesday, William B. Taylor Jr., the top United States
diplomat in Kiev, told House impeachment investigators that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/22/us/trump-impeachment-ukraine.html}{the
freeze was directly linked to Mr. Trump's demand}. That did not deter
the president, who on Wednesday
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1186968579125792768?s=20}{approvingly
tweeted} a quote by a congressional Republican saying neither Mr. Taylor
nor any other witness had ``provided testimony that the Ukrainians were
aware that military aid was being withheld.''

In fact, word of the aid freeze had gotten to high-level Ukrainian
officials by the first week in August, according to interviews and
documents obtained by The New York Times.

The problem was not bureaucratic, the Ukrainians were told. To address
it, they were advised, they should reach out to Mick Mulvaney, the
acting White House chief of staff, according to the interviews and
records.

The timing of the communications, which have not previously been
reported, shows that Ukraine was aware the White House was holding up
the funds
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/22/world/europe/ukraine-trump-military-aid.html}{weeks
earlier than acknowledged}.

It also means that the Ukrainian government was aware of the freeze
during most of the period in August when Mr. Trump's personal lawyer
Rudolph W. Giuliani and two American diplomats were pressing President
Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine to make a public commitment to the
investigations.

The communications did not explicitly link the assistance freeze to the
push by Mr. Trump and Mr. Giuliani for the investigations. But in the
communications, officials from the United States and Ukraine discuss the
need to bring in the same senior aide to Mr. Zelensky who had been
dealing with Mr. Giuliani about Mr. Trump's demands for the
investigations, signaling a possible link between the matters.

Word of the aid freeze got to the Ukrainians at a moment when Mr.
Zelensky, who had taken office a little more than two months earlier
after a campaign in which he promised to root out corruption and stand
up to Russia, was off balance and uncertain how to stabilize his
country's relationship with the United States.

Days earlier, he had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/25/us/politics/phone-call-transcript-zelensky.html}{listened
to Mr. Trump implore him} on a half-hour
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/25/us/politics/trump-ukraine-transcript.html}{call
to pursue investigations} touching on former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. and a debunked conspiracy theory about Ukrainian involvement
in the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. Mr. Zelensky's
efforts to secure a visit to the White House --- a symbolic affirmation
of support he considered vital at a time when Russia continued to menace
Ukraine's eastern border --- seemed to be stalled. American policy
toward Ukraine was being guided not by career professionals but
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/us/politics/volker-giuliani-ukraine.html}{by
Mr. Giuliani}.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Mr. Taylor testified to the impeachment investigators that he was told
it was only on the sidelines of a Sept. 1 meeting between Mr. Zelensky
and Vice President Mike Pence in Warsaw that the Ukrainians were
directly informed by Gordon D. Sondland, the United States ambassador to
the European Union, that the aid would be dependent on Mr. Zelensky
giving Mr. Trump something he wanted: an investigation into Burisma, the
company that had employed Mr. Biden's younger son, Hunter Biden.

American and Ukrainian officials have asserted that
\href{https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/christopherm51/ukraine-unaware-aid-holdup-month-after-trump-call}{Ukraine
learned that the aid had been held up} only around the time it became
public
\href{https://www.politico.com/story/2019/08/28/trump-ukraine-military-aid-russia-1689531}{through
a news article} at the end of August.

The aid freeze is drawing additional scrutiny from the impeachment
investigators on Wednesday as they question Laura K. Cooper, a deputy
assistant defense secretary for Russia, Ukraine and Eurasia. This month,
Democrats
\href{https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/6506712-Democrats-Subpoena-The-Pentagon-For-Records.html}{subpoenaed}
both the Defense Department and the White House Office of Management and
Budget for
\href{https://intelligence.house.gov/uploadedfiles/omb_subpoena_schedule_10-07-19_hpsci.pdf}{records
related to the assistance freeze}.

As Mr. Taylor's testimony suggests, the Ukrainians did not confront the
Trump administration about the freeze until they were told in September
that it was linked to the demand for the investigations. The Ukrainians
appear to have initially been hopeful that the problem could be resolved
quietly and were reluctant to risk a public clash at a delicate time in
relations between the two nations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/21/us/politics/21dc-aid02/merlin_161823594_25c788dc-c26c-4151-ac9d-2cf2188381ef-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The disclosure that the Ukrainians knew of the freeze by early August
corroborates, and provides additional details about, a claim made by a
C.I.A. officer in his
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/26/us/politics/whistle-blower-complaint.html}{whistle-blower
complaint} that prompted the impeachment inquiry by House Democrats.

``As of early August, I heard from U.S. officials that some Ukrainian
officials were aware that U.S. aid might be in jeopardy, but I do not
know how or when they learned of it,'' the anonymous whistle-blower
wrote. The complainant said that he learned that the instruction to
freeze the assistance ``had come directly from the president,'' and said
it ``might have a connection with the overall effort to pressure
Ukrainian leadership.''

Publicly, Mr. Zelensky has insisted he felt no pressure to pursue the
investigations sought by Mr. Trump.

``There was no blackmail,'' Mr. Zelensky said at a news conference this
month. He cited as evidence that he ``had no idea the military aid was
held up'' at the time of his July 25 call with Mr. Trump, when Mr. Trump
pressed him for investigations into the Bidens and a debunked conspiracy
theory about Ukrainian involvement in the hacking of the Democratic
National Committee in 2016.

Mr. Zelensky has said he knew about the holdup of the military aid
before his meeting in Poland on Sept. 1 with Mr. Pence, but has been
vague about exactly when he learned about it. ``When I did find out, I
raised it with Pence at a meeting in Warsaw,'' he said this month.

In conversations over several days in early August, a Pentagon official
discussed the assistance freeze directly with a Ukrainian government
official, according to records and interviews. The Pentagon official
suggested that Mr. Mulvaney had been pushing for the assistance to be
withheld, and urged the Ukrainians to reach out to him.

The Pentagon official described Mr. Mulvaney's motivations only in broad
terms but made clear that the same Ukrainian official, Andriy Yermak,
who had been negotiating with Mr. Giuliani over the investigations and a
White House visit being sought by Mr. Zelensky should also reach out to
Mr. Mulvaney over the hold on military aid.

A senior administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity
to speak publicly about the issue said on Monday that Mr. Mulvaney ``had
absolutely no communication with the Ukranians about this issue.''

Ukrainian officials had grown suspicious that the assistance was in
jeopardy because formal talks with the Pentagon on its release had
concluded by June without any apparent problem.

In talks during the spring with American officials, the Ukrainians had
resolved conditions for the release of the assistance, and believed
everything was on schedule, according to Ivanna Klympush-Tsintsadze,
Ukraine's former vice prime minister for Euro-Atlantic Integration.

But by early August, the Ukrainians were struggling to get clear answers
from their American contacts about the status of the assistance,
according to American officials familiar with the Ukrainians' efforts.

In the days and weeks after top Ukrainian officials were alerted to the
aid freeze, Mr. Sondland and Kurt D. Volker, then the State Department's
special envoy to Ukraine, were
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/03/us/politics/trump-ukraine.html}{working
with Mr. Giuliani to draft a statement} for Mr. Zelensky to deliver that
would commit him to pursuing the investigations,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/04/us/politics/ukraine-text-messages-volker.html}{according
to text messages} between the men turned over to the House impeachment
investigators.

The text messages between Mr. Volker, Mr. Sondland and the top Zelensky
aide did not mention the holdup of the aid. It was only in September,
after the Warsaw meeting, that Mr. Taylor wrote in a text message to Mr.
Sondland, ``I think it's crazy to withhold security assistance for help
with a political campaign.''

After being informed on Sept. 1 in Warsaw that the aid would be released
only if Mr. Zelensky agreed to the investigations, Ukrainian officials,
including their national security adviser and defense minister, were
troubled by their inability to get answers to questions about the freeze
from United States officials, Mr. Taylor testified.

Through the summer, Mr. Zelensky had been noncommittal about the demands
from Mr. Volker, Mr. Sondland and Mr. Giuliani for a public commitment
to the investigations. On Sept. 5, Mr. Taylor testified, Mr. Zelensky
met in Kiev with Senators Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, and
Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut.

Mr. Zelensky's first question, Mr. Taylor said, was about the security
aid. The senators responded, Mr. Taylor said, that Mr. Zelensky ``should
not jeopardize bipartisan support by getting drawn into U.S. domestic
politics.''

But Mr. Sondland was still pressing for a commitment from Mr. Zelensky,
and was pressing him to do a CNN interview in which he would talk about
pursuing the investigations sought by Mr. Trump.

Mr. Zelensky never did the interview and never made the public
commitment sought by the White House, although
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/04/world/europe/ukraine-biden-burisma.html}{a
Ukrainian prosecutor later said he would ``audit'' a case} involving the
owner of the company that paid Hunter Biden as a board member.

Mr. Giuliani has said he had nothing to do with the assistance freeze
and did not talk to Mr. Trump or ``anybody in the government'' about it.
``I didn't know about it until I read about it in the newspaper,'' he
said in an interview last week.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
