Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/pages/business/media/index.html}{Media}\textbar{}Trump Strategist
Stephen Bannon Says Media Should `Keep Its Mouth Shut'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2k8h6Oa}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-strategist-stephen-bannon-says-media-should-keep-its-mouth-shut}{%
\section{Trump Strategist Stephen Bannon Says Media Should `Keep Its
Mouth
Shut'}\label{trump-strategist-stephen-bannon-says-media-should-keep-its-mouth-shut}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/01/27/business/27BANNON/27BANNON-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-m-grynbaum}{Michael M.
Grynbaum}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Jan. 26, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Just days after President Trump spoke of a ``running
war'' with the media, his chief White House strategist, Stephen K.
Bannon, ratcheted up the attacks, arguing that news organizations had
been ``humiliated'' by the election outcome and repeatedly describing
the media as ``the opposition party'' of the current administration.

``The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut
and just listen for a while,'' Mr. Bannon said in an interview on
Wednesday.

``I want you to quote this,'' Mr. Bannon added. ``The media here is the
opposition party. They don't understand this country. They still do not
understand why Donald Trump is the president of the United States.''

The scathing assessment --- delivered by one of Mr. Trump's most trusted
and influential advisers, in the first days of his presidency --- comes
at a moment of high tension between the news media and the
administration, with skirmishes over the size of Mr. Trump's inaugural
crowd and the president's false claims that millions of illegal votes by
undocumented immigrants swayed the popular vote against him.

Mr. Bannon, who rarely grants interviews to journalists outside of
Breitbart News, the provocative right-wing website he ran until August,
was echoing
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/21/us/politics/trump-white-house-briefing-inauguration-crowd-size.html}{comments
by Mr. Trump} last weekend, when the president said he was in ``a
running war'' with the media and called journalists ``among the most
dishonest people on earth.'' Mr. Bannon's remarks added to the growing
acrimony between the press and a president who made attacks on the media
a rallying point of his election campaign.

Among Mr. Trump's advisers in the White House, Mr. Bannon is responsible
for putting into action
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/15/us/politics/stephen-bannon-white-house-trump.html}{the
nationalist vision} that Mr. Trump channeled during the later months of
the campaign, one that stemmed from Mr. Bannon himself. And in many ways
Mr. Trump has acted on that vision during his first week in office ---
from the description of ``American carnage'' he laid out in his
inauguration speech to a series of executive actions outlining policies
on trade agreements, immigration and the building of a border wall.

Mr. Bannon is one of the strongest forces in an administration with
competing power centers. A savvy manipulator of the press, and a proud
provocateur, he was among the few advisers in Mr. Trump's circle who
were said to have urged Sean Spicer, the new press secretary, to give a
confrontational, emotional statement to a shocked West Wing briefing
room on Saturday, when the White House disputed news reports about the
size of the inauguration crowd. He shares Mr. Trump's view that the news
media misunderstood the movement that the president rode into office.

Speaking by telephone on Wednesday, Mr. Bannon delivered a broad
indictment of the news media as being biased against Mr. Trump and out
of touch with the American public. That is an argument familiar to
readers of Breitbart and followers of personalities friendly to Mr.
Trump, like Sean Hannity of Fox News.

``The elite media got it dead wrong, 100 percent dead wrong,'' Mr.
Bannon said of the election, calling it ``a humiliating defeat that they
will never wash away, that will always be there.''

``The mainstream media has not fired or terminated anyone associated
with following our campaign,'' Mr. Bannon said. ``Look at the Twitter
feeds of those people: They were outright activists of the Clinton
campaign.'' (He did not name specific reporters or editors.)

``That's why you have no power,'' he added. ``You were humiliated.''

Mr. Bannon spoke in blunt but calm tones, peppered with profanity, and
humorously referred to himself as ``Darth Vader.'' He said, with ironic
relish, that Mr. Trump was elected by a surge of support from ``the
working-class hobbits and deplorables.''

The conversation was initiated by Mr. Bannon to offer praise for Mr.
Spicer, who has been criticized this week for making false claims at the
White House podium about attendance at Mr. Trump's inaugural, for
calling reporters dishonest and lecturing them about what stories to
write, and for failing to disavow Mr. Trump's lie about widespread voter
fraud in the election.

Asked if he was concerned that Mr. Spicer had lost credibility with the
news media, Mr. Bannon chortled. ``Are you kidding me?'' he said. ``We
think that's a badge of honor. `Questioning his integrity' --- are you
kidding me? The media has zero integrity, zero intelligence, and no hard
work.''

``You're the opposition party,'' he said. ``Not the Democratic Party.
You're the opposition party. The media's the opposition party.''

Journalists reacted with alarm and defiance to Mr. Bannon's comments.
``What country are we living in?'' Christiane Amanpour, the CNN
correspondent,
\href{https://twitter.com/camanpour/status/824730505543319554}{wrote on
Twitter.}

``We are not the opposition,'' Stephen Engelberg, editor in chief of the
nonprofit news organization
\href{https://www.propublica.org/}{ProPublica}, wrote in an email. ``We
are part of an essential function in any democracy.'' He added that
ProPublica had no intention of ``shutting up in response to this or any
other president's demand.''

``We are here to tell the truth and we intend to continue doing so,
regardless of how badly some might want us to parrot `alternative
facts,''' Mr. Engelberg said.

Mr. Bannon mostly referred to the ``elite'' or ``mainstream'' media, but
he cited The New York Times and The Washington Post by name.

``The paper of record for our beloved republic, The New York Times,
should be absolutely ashamed and humiliated,'' Mr. Bannon said. ``They
got it 100 percent wrong.''

He added that he has been a reader of The Times for most of his adult
life.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
