\hypertarget{complete-the-security-check-to-access-this-page}{%
\section{Complete the security check to access this
page}\label{complete-the-security-check-to-access-this-page}}

\hypertarget{please-turn-javascript-on-and-reload-the-page}{%
\section{Please turn JavaScript on and reload the
page.}\label{please-turn-javascript-on-and-reload-the-page}}

\hypertarget{please-enable-cookies}{%
\section{Please enable Cookies.}\label{please-enable-cookies}}

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Completing a CAPTCHA proves you are a human and gives you temporary
access to this page.\\
Make sure your home and work devices are regularly scanned for malware
to reduce the need to complete the CAPTCHA.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

RayID: 5bbcce05cf55070e\\
IP: 150.129.8.9

\hypertarget{conclua-essa-verificauxe7uxe3o-de-seguranuxe7a-para-acessar-essa-puxe1gina}{%
\subsubsection{Conclua essa verificação de segurança para acessar essa
página}\label{conclua-essa-verificauxe7uxe3o-de-seguranuxe7a-para-acessar-essa-puxe1gina}}

Completar o CAPTCHA comprova que você é humano e fornece acesso
temporário à página. Verifique regularmente seus dispositivos domésticos
e comerciais quanto a infecções de malware para reduzir a necessidade de
conclusão do CAPTCHA.

\hypertarget{complete-la-verificaciuxf3n-de-seguridad-para-tener-acceso-a-esta-puxe1gina}{%
\subsubsection{Complete la verificación de seguridad para tener acceso a
esta
página}\label{complete-la-verificaciuxf3n-de-seguridad-para-tener-acceso-a-esta-puxe1gina}}

La verificación CAPTCHA se encarga de comprobar que usted es un ser
humano, y le da acceso temporal a esta página. Asegúrese de analizar
regularmente sus dispositivos personales y de trabajo en busca de
malware para reducir la necesidad de una verificación CAPTCHA.

\hypertarget{sicherheitspruxfcfung-zum-zugriff-auf-diese-seite-erforderlich}{%
\subsubsection{Sicherheitsprüfung zum Zugriff auf diese Seite
erforderlich}\label{sicherheitspruxfcfung-zum-zugriff-auf-diese-seite-erforderlich}}

Die CAPTCHA-Prüfung beweist, dass es sich bei Ihnen um einen echten
Menschen handelt, und gibt Ihnen vorübergehend Zugriff auf diese Seite.
Achten Sie darauf, dass Ihre Geräte zuhause und im Büro regelmäßig auf
Malware geprüft werden, damit CAPTCHA nur in Ausnahmefällen erforderlich
ist.

\hypertarget{veuillez-effectuer-la-vuxe9rification-de-suxe9curituxe9-pour-accuxe9der-uxe0-cette-page}{%
\subsubsection{Veuillez effectuer la vérification de sécurité pour
accéder à cette
page}\label{veuillez-effectuer-la-vuxe9rification-de-suxe9curituxe9-pour-accuxe9der-uxe0-cette-page}}

Une vérification CAPTCHA nous permet de nous assurer que vous êtes une
personne réelle afin de vous donner un accès temporaire à cette page.
Vérifiez régulièrement l'absence de logiciels malveillants sur vos
appareils personnels et professionnels pour réduire la nécessité
d'effectuer une vérification CAPTCHA.

\hypertarget{voltooi-de-beveiligingscontrole-om-toegang-tot-deze-pagina-te-krijgen}{%
\subsubsection{Voltooi de beveiligingscontrole om toegang tot deze
pagina te
krijgen}\label{voltooi-de-beveiligingscontrole-om-toegang-tot-deze-pagina-te-krijgen}}

Door een CAPTCHA in te vullen, bewijst u dat u een mens bent en krijgt u
tijdelijk toegang tot deze pagina. Zorg ervoor dat uw apparaten voor
persoonlijk en zakelijk gebruik regelmatig worden gescand op malware. Zo
wordt het invullen van een CAPTCHA minder noodzakelijk.

\hypertarget{ux434ux43bux44f-ux434ux43eux441ux442ux443ux43fux430-ux43a-ux44dux442ux43eux439-ux441ux442ux440ux430ux43dux438ux446ux435-ux43dux435ux43eux431ux445ux43eux434ux438ux43cux43e-ux43fux440ux43eux439ux442ux438-ux43fux440ux43eux432ux435ux440ux43aux443-ux431ux435ux437ux43eux43fux430ux441ux43dux43eux441ux442ux438}{%
\subsubsection{Для доступа к этой странице необходимо пройти проверку
безопасности}\label{ux434ux43bux44f-ux434ux43eux441ux442ux443ux43fux430-ux43a-ux44dux442ux43eux439-ux441ux442ux440ux430ux43dux438ux446ux435-ux43dux435ux43eux431ux445ux43eux434ux438ux43cux43e-ux43fux440ux43eux439ux442ux438-ux43fux440ux43eux432ux435ux440ux43aux443-ux431ux435ux437ux43eux43fux430ux441ux43dux43eux441ux442ux438}}

Успешное прохождение теста CAPTCHA доказывает, что вы человек, и дает
вам временный доступ к этой странице. Чтобы не проходить тест CAPTCHA
слишком часто, регулярно проверяйте свои устройства дома и на работе на
отсутствие вредоносных программ.

\hypertarget{ux3053ux306eux30daux30fcux30b8ux306bux30a2ux30afux30bbux30b9ux3059ux308bux306bux306fux30bbux30adux30e5ux30eaux30c6ux30a3ux30c1ux30a7ux30c3ux30afux3092ux5b8cux4e86ux3057ux3066ux304fux3060ux3055ux3044}{%
\subsubsection{このページにアクセスするには、セキュリティチェックを完了してください}\label{ux3053ux306eux30daux30fcux30b8ux306bux30a2ux30afux30bbux30b9ux3059ux308bux306bux306fux30bbux30adux30e5ux30eaux30c6ux30a3ux30c1ux30a7ux30c3ux30afux3092ux5b8cux4e86ux3057ux3066ux304fux3060ux3055ux3044}}

CAPTCHAを正しく入力すると人間による入力であることが証明され、このページへの一時的なアクセスが提供されます。CAPTCHAを入力する必要性を減らすには、マルウェアが存在しないか自宅と職場の機器を定期的にスキャンするようにしてください。

\hypertarget{completa-il-controllo-di-sicurezza-per-accedere-a-questa-pagina}{%
\subsubsection{Completa il controllo di sicurezza per accedere a questa
pagina}\label{completa-il-controllo-di-sicurezza-per-accedere-a-questa-pagina}}

Il superamento del test CAPTCHA dimostra che sei un essere umano e ti
concede l'accesso temporaneo a questa pagina. Assicurati di sottoporre a
scansione i dispositivi che usi a casa e al lavoro per escludere la
presenza di malware e ridurre la necessità di eseguire il test CAPTCHA.

\hypertarget{ux623ux643ux645ux644-ux627ux644ux641ux62dux635-ux627ux644ux623ux645ux646ux64a-ux644ux644ux648ux635ux648ux644-ux625ux644ux649-ux647ux630ux647-ux627ux644ux635ux641ux62dux629}{%
\subsubsection{أكمل الفحص الأمني للوصول إلى هذه
الصفحة}\label{ux623ux643ux645ux644-ux627ux644ux641ux62dux635-ux627ux644ux623ux645ux646ux64a-ux644ux644ux648ux635ux648ux644-ux625ux644ux649-ux647ux630ux647-ux627ux644ux635ux641ux62dux629}}

يثبت إكمال اختبار CAPTCHA أنك إنسان ويمنحك وصولاً مؤقتًا لهذه الصفحة.
تأكد من إجراء مسح دوري على أجهزة منزلك وعملك لاستكشاف البرامج المضرة
لتقليل الحاجة إلى إكمال اختبار CAPTCHA.

\hypertarget{ux5b8cux6210ux5b89ux5168ux68c0ux67e5ux4ee5ux8bbfux95eeux6b64ux9875ux9762}{%
\subsubsection{完成安全检查以访问此页面}\label{ux5b8cux6210ux5b89ux5168ux68c0ux67e5ux4ee5ux8bbfux95eeux6b64ux9875ux9762}}

完成 CAPTCHA
可证明您是真人，将为您提供对此页面的临时访问权限。请确保您的家庭和工作设备定期进行恶意软件扫描，以降低需要完成
CAPTCHA 的频率。
