Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Final Stretch, Biden
Defends Lead Against Trump's Onslaught

\url{https://nyti.ms/2FeWobB}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-final-stretch-biden-defends-lead-against-trumps-onslaught}{%
\section{In Final Stretch, Biden Defends Lead Against Trump's
Onslaught}\label{in-final-stretch-biden-defends-lead-against-trumps-onslaught}}

The president is attempting to overtake his Democratic challenger with a
strategy of racial polarization in heavily white Midwestern states, even
as Democrats make inroads in the Republican-leaning South and West.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/09/25/multimedia/author-alexander-burns/author-alexander-burns-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alexander-burns}{Alexander
Burns},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Sept. 6, 2020Updated Sept. 10, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/06/lens/06campaign-trump/06campaign-trump-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\emph{Follow our latest coverage of the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden}{\emph{Biden
vs. Trump 2020 election here}}\emph{.}

A presidential campaign long muffled by the coronavirus pandemic will
burst into a newly intense and public phase after Labor Day, as Joseph
R. Biden Jr. moves aggressively to defend his polling lead against a
ferocious onslaught by President Trump aimed chiefly at white voters in
the Midwest.

Private polls conducted for both parties during and after their August
conventions found the race largely stable but tightening slightly in
some states, with
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/us/politics/biden-trump-michigan-jobs-taxes.html}{Mr.
Trump} recovering some support from conservative-leaning rural voters
who had drifted away over the summer amid the worsening pandemic. Yet
Mr. Biden continues to enjoy advantages with nearly every other group,
especially in populous areas where the virus remains at the forefront
for voters, according to people briefed on the data.

No president has entered Labor Day weekend --- the traditional kickoff
of the fall campaign --- as such a clear underdog since George Bush in
1992. Mr. Trump has not led in public polls in such must-win states as
Florida since Mr. Biden claimed the nomination in April, and there has
been little fluctuation in the race. Still, the president's surprise win
in 2016 weighs heavily in the thinking of nervous Democrats and hopeful
Republicans alike.

Mr. Trump's effort to revive his candidacy by blaming Mr. Biden's party
for scenes of looting and arson in American cities has jolted Mr. Biden
into a more proactive posture, one that some Democrats have long urged
him to adopt. The former vice president spent last week pushing back
forcefully on Mr. Trump's often false attacks, after encouragement from
allies including former Secretary of State John F. Kerry, whose 2004
presidential campaign faltered in the face of a concerted smear campaign
about his Vietnam War service.

Both parties see Mr. Trump with a narrow path to re-election that runs
through heavily white states like Wisconsin and Minnesota, where his
strategy of racial division could help him catch Mr. Biden. Yet the
president is also on defense in diverse Southern and Western states he
carried in 2016, including Florida, North Carolina, Arizona and Georgia.

Two Republican former governors, Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota and Scott
Walker of Wisconsin, said that Mr. Biden had entered the fall with
slight advantages in their states but that the race could easily turn.

``Can Trump win back some of those voters in the second and third ring
of suburbs?'' said Mr. Pawlenty, noting that those areas had trended
toward Democrats. ``They're really unsettled by the violence, but the
question is if it's enough to reverse recent voting patterns.''

Mr. Walker said Mr. Trump's hopes in Wisconsin increasingly hung on the
three presidential debates, which will ``have an impact if it worries
voters about Biden.''

A consistent challenge for Mr. Trump has been his unwillingness, or
inability, to drive a focused political message rather than becoming
engulfed in less favorable debates, like his ongoing tirade against a
report that he belittled American service members. His campaign also
appears to be facing a significant financial crunch and has largely
ceased advertising on television even as Mr. Biden begins to spend
heavily from his war chest after raising about \$365 million in August.

The former vice president is airing tens of millions of dollars in ads
rebutting Mr. Trump's law-and-order-themed attacks, though some in his
campaign are hoping to quickly return the focus to the coronavirus and
the economy.

Mr. Biden is slated to visit Pennsylvania on Monday and Michigan on
Wednesday, his third and fourth trips to critical swing states since
last week, when he traveled to Pittsburgh for a speech rebutting Mr.
Trump's attacks and then to Kenosha, Wis., to meet with the family of
Jacob Blake, a Black man shot by the police, and with others.

Morgan Jackson, a top adviser to Roy Cooper, the Democratic governor of
North Carolina, said his surveys after the conventions indicated that
Mr. Biden had a steady, if modest, advantage in the state and that the
small number of swing voters were chiefly concerned about the pandemic.

``Charlotte is not burning,'' Mr. Jackson said. ``That's a conversation
taking place on Fox News but nowhere in reality here.''

Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, the former Democratic presidential
candidate, said Mr. Biden had so far struck the right chord for a
Midwestern audience.

``Joe Biden's words in Pittsburgh --- that he both supports police
reform and condemns lawless looting --- were exactly what people needed
to hear in Minnesota and across the country,'' she said.

Image

Supporters of Joseph R. Biden Jr. rallied on Thursday outside Grace
Lutheran Church in Kenosha, Wis., where Mr. Biden met the family of
Jacob Blake, a Black man shot by the police.Credit...Chang W. Lee/The
New York Times

Many Democrats in battleground states are anxious to see Mr. Biden visit
in person --- particularly in Wisconsin, where Hillary Clinton's 2016
absence lives in political infamy.

Representative Mark Pocan, a Wisconsin Democrat, said he had ``been
promised Biden several more times'' after the Kenosha trip. He said
Republican attacks on Mr. Biden's limited travel had penetrated with
some voters.

``I've heard some people who don't live and breathe politics saying,
`Oh, looks like Democrats aren't going to come out again,''' he
recalled.

Democrats in several states said Mr. Biden's team was also weighing how
to deploy campaign organizers in the field in the midst of a
public-health crisis. One option under discussion is to send canvassers
on door-drop assignments, delivering pamphlets but not engaging in
extended conversation with voters. Mr. Trump's campaign has been making
door-to-door forays for some time, despite the virus.

The Trump campaign is expected to increase television spending next
week, but several Republicans said that Bill Stepien, Mr. Trump's
campaign manager since July, was taking a cautious approach after the
former leadership spent huge sums on television and digital ads earlier
this year, to no discernible effect. The light television spending and
advertising blackouts in some key states have mystified allies, raising
questions about how much cash the campaign has in the bank.

Mr. Stepien said in a brief interview that a surgical approach to
television ads was the right move for now, focusing on states where
early and absentee voting are starting. Other campaign officials said
that little was breaking through the clutter of news right now and that
that would give them time to gauge the post-convention landscape.

``We should not be applying a 2004 media strategy to a 2020 campaign,''
Mr. Stepien said, stressing the unique circumstances of the current
race.

The best chance for Mr. Trump, Republicans say, is to drive at a
singular message linking Mr. Biden to the far left.

``He has to continue focusing on the network of anti-American
lawlessness,'' former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said of Mr. Trump,
urging him to ``emphasize American patriotism and history versus the
left's anti-Americanism'' and to ``turn Biden into McGovern.''

Mr. Trump's campaign advisers maintain that their private surveys are
more encouraging than public polling. But while Mr. Trump's swerve
toward a strident law-and-order message has helped him consolidate
conservative support, his rhetoric about rioting in a handful of cities
does not appear to have swayed moderates, strategists in both parties
said.

That is a serious problem for the president, given the lack of
significant third-party candidates in 2020, which raises the pressure on
Mr. Trump to win over new voters.

In his campaign's data, Mr. Trump is leading Mr. Biden on the issue of
the economy, though at least one senior official has cautioned that the
president should not take too much encouragement from that; some
Democratic and independent voters, the official said, see Mr. Trump as
strong on the issue but still plan to vote for Mr. Biden.

Liesl Hickey, a Republican strategist who has been conducting extensive
research on suburban voters, said the pandemic remained their central
concern.

``The virus is still the most important issue for voters,'' Ms. Hickey
said. ``Their lives are still disrupted. Schools are closed; businesses
are closed.''

Allies of Mr. Trump believe there is virtually no chance that he can win
the popular vote, and they have seen some states on his victorious 2016
map shift markedly away from them. They are particularly pessimistic
about Michigan, which Mr. Trump narrowly won four years ago, and are
looking to flip Nevada, which has many white voters without college
degrees, and especially Minnesota, the state he lost by the closest
margin four years ago and the site of weeks of unrest following the
police killing of George Floyd.

``There is no question that Joe Biden has to earn Minnesotans' votes,
that he has to explain why the chaos of today is going to be replaced
with the calm he is proposing,'' said Representative Dean Phillips, a
Democrat who in 2018 captured a historically Republican seat in the
suburbs.

Mr. Phillips said he had shared that view with the Biden campaign and
expected the former vice president to visit his state soon.

Yet even as Mr. Trump attempts to win over states that were once
reliably blue, he is also imperiled in traditionally red-tinted states
that have been hit hard by the pandemic, like Florida and Arizona. A
Trump strategy that is aimed at driving racial polarization in the
Midwest could backfire in more heterogeneous states in the South and
West.

With those dynamics in mind, at least two pro-Biden groups have
approached Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former presidential
candidate, about the possibility of funding an enormous blitz against
Mr. Trump in Florida, arguing that delivering the state's 29 Electoral
College votes to Mr. Biden would effectively end the election. Mr.
Trump's weakness with older voters has made him acutely vulnerable in a
state where affluent retirees have been a cornerstone of the Republican
coalition.

But aides to Mr. Bloomberg have so far demurred, explaining that the
former New York City mayor has not approved any plans for spending money
in the presidential race, people involved in the conversation said.

Still, the possibility of a knockout in the Sun Belt is enticing to
Democrats, particularly as surveys from both parties continue to show
Mr. Trump at risk in red-tinted states like Georgia. Sam Park, a Georgia
Democratic state legislator who spoke at Mr. Biden's convention, said
the campaign had signaled that it planned to contest the state seriously
in the final two months of the race, the first time a Democrat has done
so this century.

``If folks in Georgia turn out, Georgia turns blue,'' Mr. Park argued,
``and we see that opportunity, particularly given how diverse this state
is.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
