Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}In Democratic Fund-Raising,
Joe Biden Falls Far Behind

\url{https://nyti.ms/2Bee5TE}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-democratic-fund-raising-joe-biden-falls-far-behind}{%
\section{In Democratic Fund-Raising, Joe Biden Falls Far
Behind}\label{in-democratic-fund-raising-joe-biden-falls-far-behind}}

In the past three months, Mr. Biden spent more on his campaign than he
raised. He begins an aggressive phase of the primary race with far less
cash on hand than top rivals.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/16/us/politics/16campfin/merlin_162812547_d3be28f6-045e-45d2-b833-76d94446ba02-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane Goldmacher}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/thomas-kaplan}{Thomas Kaplan}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 16, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WESTERVILLE, Ohio --- Former Vice President
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.}'s campaign began October with less than \$9 million in the
bank as the 2020 Democratic primary race entered a new and more
aggressive phase, barely more than a third as much cash as that of his
leading rival, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/elizabeth-warren.html}{Elizabeth
Warren}, and nearly \$25 million behind the race's money leader, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders}.

In the past three months, Mr. Biden spent more money than he raised,
\$17.7 million compared with \$15.7 million, a sign of his operation's
fiscal peril so many months before the first votes will be cast in
February.

On the Republican side, President Trump continued to pad his coffers for
the general election, announcing that his campaign, the Republican
National Committee and their shared accounts had a staggering \$158
million cash on hand.

The new disclosures came only moments after Mr. Biden stepped off a
debate stage where the dynamics made plain that even his rivals no
longer saw him as the front-runner. They are the latest sign that Mr.
Biden, who relies mainly on large donors, is struggling to compete with
the small-donor-funded campaigns of Ms. Warren, Mr. Sanders and Mayor
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/pete-buttigieg.html}{Pete
Buttigieg} of South Bend, Ind., who entered October with two and half
times as much cash as Mr. Biden.

``It'll be a telling moment for Biden,'' said Jennifer Palmieri, who
served as communications director for Hillary Clinton's 2016
presidential campaign. ``His supporters will see he does not have enough
money, and either that will prompt a bunch of money to come in in the
fourth quarter, or he's going to be in very rough shape.''

``Because you can't run a serious primary campaign on \$9 million,'' she
added.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/15/us/democratic-q3-fundraising-promo-1571187889375/democratic-q3-fundraising-promo-1571187889375-articleLarge-v2.jpg}

\hypertarget{whos-up-and-whos-down-in-2020-democratic-fund-raising}{%
\subsection{Who's Up and Who's Down in 2020 Democratic
Fund-Raising}\label{whos-up-and-whos-down-in-2020-democratic-fund-raising}}

Elizabeth Warren saw her fund-raising increase once again. Joseph R.
Biden Jr. brought in less money. Bernie Sanders remains strong. New
fund-raising numbers reveal the shifting financial fortunes of 2020
Democrats.

Democratic candidates were required to report their fund-raising for the
third quarter, which went from July through September, to the Federal
Election Commission by Tuesday. Mr. Sanders, of Vermont, led the
Democratic field with \$33.7 million cash on hand to begin October,
while Ms. Warren, of Massachusetts, had \$25.7 million, and Mr.
Buttigieg had \$23.4 million.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Biden noted that he had been in
the race for less time than his rivals --- he entered in April --- and
that he had not begun by ``dropping \$10 million from a Senate campaign,
wherever that money was raised from.''

He did not name Ms. Warren, though his allies have criticized her for
boasting of her refusal to hold fund-raisers after beginning the race
with \$10 million from her Senate coffers,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/09/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-2020.html?module=inline}{which
had been raised while she held such events}.

With just under \$9 million, Mr. Biden is far closer to the cash total
of the political newcomer
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/andrew-yang.html}{Andrew
Yang}, who had \$6.4 million in the bank to begin October, than to those
at the top of the fund-raising leader board.

``Oh my,'' Patti Solis Doyle, who served as Mrs. Clinton's campaign
manager in 2008, remarked when the figures were first posted on Twitter.

Mr. Biden's treasury now ranks fifth in the Democratic field, also
behind Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/kamala-harris.html}{Kamala
Harris} of California, who had \$10.5 million in the bank, though her
\$911,000 in unpaid bills --- to her pollster, media buyer and lawyers,
among others --- meant that her functional cash on hand was closer to
\$9.6 million. (Mr. Sanders, Ms. Warren and Mr. Buttigieg reported no
debts.)

The self-funding billionaire
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/tom-steyer.html}{Tom
Steyer,} who entered the race in July and reported spending \$47
million, also has more financial resources than Mr. Biden heading toward
the Iowa caucuses, which are less than four months away.

Mr. Biden's team has steadfastly said that it has enough cash to run the
campaign it wants, and recently announced plans to spend \$6 million on
digital and television ads in the coming months.

``The fundamental question about fund-raising is: Do you have what you
need to run your race? And we do,'' said Kate Bedingfield, a deputy
campaign manager for Mr. Biden.

On Friday, Mr. Biden's campaign manager, Greg Schultz, scheduled a
conference call with the campaign's donors, presumably to reassure them
about the path forward. Top fund-raisers for Mr. Biden recently gathered
in Philadelphia for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/05/us/politics/biden-donors.html}{a
full day of briefings on Mr. Biden's strategy through Super Tuesday} in
early March.

But with Mr. Biden relatively low on funds and now trailing Ms. Warren
in some polls in both of the first two voting states, Iowa and New
Hampshire, his campaign faces the possibility of a serious pinch on his
resources, long before the campaign expands to bigger states like
California and Texas.

Tad Devine, a veteran Democratic strategist who advised Mr. Sanders's
2016 campaign but is not working for anyone in the 2020 race, said the
lack of cash would limit Mr. Biden's political options. He pointed to
the variety of areas where campaigns might want to invest money: airing
television ads, deploying staff on the ground, staging splashy but
expensive events and running a robust digital program.

``Your strategic options are limited,'' Mr. Devine said, adding that the
options available to Mr. Biden's better-funded rivals were ``much
bigger.''

``He's going to have to place the right bet,'' Mr. Devine said. ``It's
going to have to be a winner. It's almost like you're playing roulette,
and one guy gets five numbers and the other guy gets one number. Who's
going to win?''

Over the summer, Mr. Biden had already begun
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/30/us/politics/joe-biden-ads.html}{to
slash his digital spending budget}, which was also clear in the new
fillings. He spent about \$1 million in the first half of the quarter
and about \$311,000 in the second half, records show.

During the quarter, Mr. Biden also spent \$924,000 on a charter jet
company, Advanced Aviation Team, as he raced across the country not only
for rallies and speeches but also for dozens of fund-raisers on both
coasts. Mr. Biden's campaign said the costs included paying for carbon
offsets.

Mr. Biden's biggest expense is his payroll, which cost about \$6.8
million in the past three months, records show. Mr. Biden had roughly
440 people on his payroll --- about as many as Mr. Buttigieg --- while
Ms. Warren had more than 600 and Mr. Sanders had about 550.

In addition to his staff, Mr. Biden also paid more than \$250,000 to
various fund-raising consultants and nearly \$500,000 in rent to cover
both his downtown Philadelphia headquarters and outposts in Iowa, New
Hampshire and South Carolina.

While Ms. Warren and Mr. Sanders have rejected traditional fund-raising
from large donors, Mr. Biden spent much of September traveling the
country to collect \$1,000 and \$2,800 checks. More than two-thirds of
his fund-raising, about \$10.8 million, came from donors giving more
than \$200; less than \$5 million came from those who gave less than
that.

Mr. Biden was hardly the only candidate to spend more than he raised
last quarter. Over half of the candidates, including Ms. Harris, did so,
with Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/amy-klobuchar.html}{Amy
Klobuchar} of Minnesota reporting the highest so-called burn rate,
spending \$1.62 for every dollar raised.

Several campaigns reported less than \$1 million in the bank, though
only one candidate who appeared at Tuesday's debate was in such a dire
financial position:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/julian-castro.html}{Julián
Castro}, the former housing secretary, had less than \$700,000 left.

Shane Goldmacher reported from Westerville, and Thomas Kaplan from New
York. Annie Daniel contributed reporting from Washington, Andrew Chavez
from New York and Katie Glueck from Columbus, Ohio.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
