Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Joe Biden Ramps Up Attacks
on Elizabeth Warren's `Credibility'

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VP0DyN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{joe-biden-ramps-up-attacks-on-elizabeth-warrens-credibility}{%
\section{Joe Biden Ramps Up Attacks on Elizabeth Warren's
`Credibility'}\label{joe-biden-ramps-up-attacks-on-elizabeth-warrens-credibility}}

A day after they sparred in a Democratic presidential debate, Mr. Biden
aimed more criticism at Ms. Warren, who has joined him as a
front-runner.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/10/16/us/politics/16biden-warren/merlin_162812550_bffe10e2-495a-4384-8163-92af0ccef4c5-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/katie-glueck}{Katie Glueck}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Oct. 16, 2019Updated Nov. 1, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

COLUMBUS, Ohio --- A day after their fiercest
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/16/us/politics/democratic-debate.html}{debate-stage
confrontation to date},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Joseph
R. Biden Jr.} escalated his criticism of his most formidable rival for
the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Elizabeth
Warren} of Massachusetts, suggesting that she was not being forthright
about the costs of her far-reaching policy proposals and questioning her
``credibility.''

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Mr.
Biden} zeroed in on
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Ms.
Warren's} refusal to say if she would raise taxes on middle-class
Americans to pay for ``Medicare for all,'' a single-payer health care
system that would all but eliminate private health insurance. While
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/amy-klobuchar-elizabeth-warren-debate.html}{other
candidates} are pouncing on that issue
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/medicare-for-all-elizabeth-warren.html}{as
well}, Mr. Biden is under particular pressure because Ms. Warren has
passed him
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/democratic-polls.html}{in
some national and early-state polls} and joined him as a front-runner, a
status he held alone for months.

``It's fascinating that the person who has a plan for everything has no
plan for the single most consequential issue in this election in the
minds of the American people across the board,'' Mr. Biden said,
addressing reporters on a cold, gray afternoon outside a union
electrical trade center.

``And, you know, credibility matters. It matters. And the question that
I think that Senator Warren is going to have to face, she's going to
have to tell the truth or the question will be raised about whether or
not she's going to be candid and honest with the American people,'' he
said.

He noted that she supports several ambitious proposals, including a tax
on the wealth of the richest Americans, and said she should be pressed
for details on how to implement them.

``The last thing the Democrats should be doing is playing Trump's game,
trying to con the American people to think this is easy,'' Mr. Biden
said.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Ms. Warren's team did not respond directly to Mr. Biden's attacks on
policy matters, instead skewering his campaign's reliance on high-dollar
fund-raising events.

``Instead of speaking to wealthy donors, our campaign spent the day
calling and thanking over a thousand of our grass-roots supporters,''
said Kristen Orthman, the communications director for Ms. Warren's
campaign. ``Other than that we have no comment.''

Mr. Biden and his allies have been
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/11/us/politics/joe-biden-elizabeth-warren-debate.html}{previewing
attacks} on Ms. Warren for more than a month, swiping at her affection
for sweeping policy plans and casting them as unrealistic or polarizing.
But at last month's presidential debate, the two
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/13/us/politics/joe-biden-elizabeth-warren-debate.html}{barely
clashed}.

That dynamic changed dramatically on Tuesday, when Mr. Biden accused Ms.
Warren of ``being vague'' in her proposals. Ms. Warren went on to detail
her work in helping to create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
under the Obama administration, leading to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/15/us/politics/biden-warren-debate.html}{a
tense exchange with Mr. Biden}, who was vice president at the time.

``I went out on the floor and got you votes,'' Mr. Biden said, his voice
rising and hand pointing in Ms. Warren's direction. ``So let's get those
things straight, too.''

Mr. Biden is now confronting a series of challenges: a third-quarter
fund-raising haul that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/10/16/us/elections/democratic-q3-fundraising.html}{fell
well behind} the totals of Ms. Warren and Senator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} of Vermont; struggles in some early state polls; and scrutiny
on his family after revelations that President Trump asked the Ukrainian
government to investigate Mr. Biden and his son Hunter.

There is no evidence that Mr. Biden, as vice president, acted improperly
to aid his son's overseas business dealings, but the development has
emerged as a major distraction to his campaign, though his national
polling numbers have generally remained steady since the Ukraine
controversy broke last month.

On Wednesday, Mr. Biden again sought to put that story line behind him,
repeatedly working to bring the focus back to Mr. Trump and casting him
as dangerous and corrupt.

``Mr. President, release your tax returns or shut up,'' he said at one
point, looking directly into the assembled cameras.

And Mr. Biden, who often talks about civility, appeared far more eager
to seize opportunities to tweak his Democratic rivals than he has on
many previous occasions.

``God love Bernie, you know it was really good, I really mean it, to see
him so healthy and moving last night,'' Mr. Biden said of Mr. Sanders,
who recently suffered a heart attack. ``But Bernie! Bernie doesn't pay
for half his plan.''

Asked about Ms. Warren's remark at the debate, that the United States
should ``get out of the Middle East,'' Mr. Biden, a former chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, embraced the chance to attempt
to draw another contrast.

``I quite frankly was surprised,'' he said. ``I have never heard anyone
say, with any serious background in foreign policy, that we pull all
troops out of the Middle East.''

Ms. Warren's campaign has clarified that she was referring to combat
troops.

Later Wednesday, Mr. Biden gave a foreign policy address in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Iowa}
where he briefly referenced that moment, again noting his surprise at
her remarks before turning back to his foreign policy agenda.

To some extent, Mr. Biden's attack is part of a broader effort to cast
himself as uniquely qualified on foreign policy, an argument he made
explicitly in his speech in
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{Iowa}.

``Trump is demolishing the moral authority of the United States of
America,'' he said, and the next president will have to handle foreign
relations in ``whatever the state of disarray Trump leaves it in.''

``We need a leader who can on Day 1 pick up the phone, call our NATO
allies, know them by their first names, and know and have them know
there will be no question about the word of the next president of the
United States,'' Mr. Biden said. ``I've personally met and built
relationships with almost every world leader that's still on the
stage.''

Thomas Kaplan and Maggie Astor contributed reporting from New York.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
