\href{/watching}{}

Watching Logo

New York Times Watching Logo

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{/watching/search}{Search}

  Search

  Magnifying glass icon
\item
  \href{/watching/watchlist}{Your Watchlist}
\item
\end{itemize}

Search

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/01/30/watching/house-party-watching/house-party-watching-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

Christopher Reid, left, and Christopher Martin in ``House Party.''New
Line Cinema, via Everett Collection

\hypertarget{nyt-recommendation}{%
\subsection{NYT RECOMMENDATION}\label{nyt-recommendation}}

\hypertarget{house-party}{%
\section{House Party}\label{house-party}}

1990• 1 hour and 40 minutes• Christopher Reid, Christopher Martin,
Martin Lawrence and Robin Harris• Directed by Reginald Hudlin

The hip-hop duo Kid `n' Play throws its high school's biggest rager of
the year in this rambunctious teen comedy.

Share

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

Like

Heart Shape

Like

Watch ... for a randy buddy flick that offers a lighter perspective on
black adolescence without shying away from big issues. While initially
conceived as a cash-in for its stars, Christopher Reid and Christopher
Martin, known as Kid `n' Play, this film from Reginald Hudlin won over
critics with its upbeat shenanigans and earned a blockbuster payday. The
rappers portray students dodging racist cops, hulking bullies and a
belt-brandishing dad, risking life and limb for a chance to score with
their crushes. It's the music that gives this film its vivacious energy,
by way of both its immaculate R\&B soundtrack and the starring pair's
magnetic freestyling sequences.

Skip ... if any degree of sophomoric and gratuitous sex is a
non-starter. Hudlin's film may broach social topics, but it still revels
in some of the R-rated conventions of the '80s party movie.

\hypertarget{read-before-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read Before You Watch}\label{read-before-you-watch}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/movie/review?res=9C0CE0DF1439F93AA35750C0A966958260}{}

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times-review}{%
\subsubsection{The New York Times
Review}\label{the-new-york-times-review}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}

\href{https://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/house-party-1990}{}

\hypertarget{roger-eberts-review}{%
\subsubsection{Roger Ebert's Review}\label{roger-eberts-review}}

\href{http://www.rogerebert.com}{www.rogerebert.com}

\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/style/longterm/movies/videos/housepartyrhinson_a0a915.htm}{}

\hypertarget{house-party-is-a-sure-footed-debut}{%
\subsubsection{`House Party' Is a Sure-Footed
Debut}\label{house-party-is-a-sure-footed-debut}}

\href{http://www.washingtonpost.com}{www.washingtonpost.com}

\href{http://articles.latimes.com/1990-03-09/entertainment/ca-2113_1_house-party}{}

\hypertarget{rites-of-teenage-passage-in-house-party}{%
\subsubsection{Rites of Teenage Passage in `House
Party'}\label{rites-of-teenage-passage-in-house-party}}

articles.latimes.com

\hypertarget{read-after-you-watch}{%
\subsubsection{Read After You Watch}\label{read-after-you-watch}}

\href{https://www.bet.com/news/celebrities/2015/03/09/commentary-you-re-remembering-house-party-all-wrong.html}{}

\hypertarget{youre-remembering-house-party-all-wrong}{%
\subsubsection{You're Remembering `House Party' All
Wrong}\label{youre-remembering-house-party-all-wrong}}

\href{http://www.bet.com}{www.bet.com}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/02/01/movies/28-essential-films-black-history-month.html}{}

\hypertarget{28-days-28-films-for-black-history-month}{%
\subsubsection{28 Days, 28 Films for Black History
Month}\label{28-days-28-films-for-black-history-month}}

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}

\hypertarget{related-videos}{%
\subsubsection{Related Videos}\label{related-videos}}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XzRfOiNFBkc}{}

\hypertarget{watch-the-trailer}{%
\subsubsection{Watch the Trailer}\label{watch-the-trailer}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9M5nIuj9oWQ}{}

\hypertarget{a-2016-interview-with-kid-n-play}{%
\subsubsection{A 2016 Interview With Kid `n'
Play}\label{a-2016-interview-with-kid-n-play}}

\href{http://www.youtube.com}{www.youtube.com}

\hypertarget{want-to-watch-it-later}{%
\subsubsection{Want to watch it later?}\label{want-to-watch-it-later}}

Save To Watch

Ribbon

Save to Watch

This recommendation was selected by the NYT Watching editors and was
written by Charles Bramesco

\hypertarget{have-questions-feedback}{%
\paragraph{Have questions? Feedback?}\label{have-questions-feedback}}

Read our
\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/01/10/watching/faq.html}{FAQs}
or \href{mailto:watchingcare@NYTimes.com}{contact us} to let us know how
we're doing.

\hypertarget{lets-be-friends}{%
\paragraph{Let's be friends.}\label{lets-be-friends}}

\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytwatching/}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_facebook_icon.48f8f0ac.svg}}\href{https://twitter.com/watching}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/footer_twitter_icon.f138d306.svg}}

\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{\includegraphics{/watching/assets/web/img/the-new-york-times.c0889830.svg}}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/arts/television}{TV}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/movies}{Movies}

\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html}{Privacy
Policy}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/terms/terms-of-service.html}{Terms
of
Service}\href{//www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html\#pp}{Your
Ad Choices}\href{http://www.nytco.com/}{© The New York Times Company}

Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Your preference has been saved.
