Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/europe}{Europe}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/europe}{Europe}\textbar{}A British House
Overflowing With Lords Draws Scorn

\url{https://nyti.ms/1MFkXJd}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{a-british-house-overflowing-with-lords-draws-scorn}{%
\section{A British House Overflowing With Lords Draws
Scorn}\label{a-british-house-overflowing-with-lords-draws-scorn}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/08/23/world/LORDS1/LORDS1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes.com/by/stephen-castle}{Stephen Castle}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 22, 2015
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

LONDON ---
\href{http://topics.nytimes.com/top/news/international/countriesandterritories/unitedkingdom/index.html?inline=nyt-geo}{Britain}'s
unelected and overcrowded House of Lords lost one of its members last
month, when a newspaper exposé prompted the
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/07/27/world/europe/british-house-of-lords-john-sewel-resigns-posts-drug-allegations.html}{resignation
of Lord Sewel} of Gilcomstoun in Aberdeen, a former university lecturer
who was accused of snorting cocaine with a prostitute and pictured
wearing an orange bra.

But after this brief downward blip, the second chamber of the British
Parliament seems poised to resume the long expansion of its ranks.

Prime Minister
\href{http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/people/c/david_cameron/index.html?inline=nyt-per}{David
Cameron} is expected to nominate several dozen new members soon,
continuing a tradition in which the party in power adds to its
representation in the House of Lords, which, while limited in authority,
can amend or delay legislation.

Though adding new peers to the Lords is standard in British politics,
there is growing disenchantment with political institutions across
Europe. Support for mainstream parties is fragmenting, and populism is
on the rise.

The House of Lords is an easy target. Swollen numbers mean its ornate,
gilded chamber is too small to seat all attendees on busy days, let
alone the entire membership, while its age profile can make it look like
a retirement home.

With 781 members entitled to vote, the Lords enjoys the dubious title of
the world's largest legislative chamber outside China.

``The House of Lords is growing out of control,'' said Darren Hughes,
deputy chief executive of the
\href{http://www.electoral-reform.org.uk/}{Electoral Reform Society,} a
group that promotes representative democracy. The society recently
released a
\href{http://www.electoral-reform.org.uk/blog/its-official-house-lords-completely-bust\#sthash.V2bgg4l6.dpuf}{report}
that described the chamber as ``a shockingly out of date and
unrepresentative institution.''

More than half of its members are 70 or older, and just two are younger
than 39, according to the society. Of the 781 peers, 589 are men.

Advancing years have not always brought wisdom, judging by the recent
resignation of John Sewel, 69, who, as news reports gleefully recounted,
was the chairman of a Lords committee responsible for upholding
standards among members. That job ended when the tabloid The Sun on
Sunday accused him of snorting cocaine off the breasts of a prostitute,
and
\href{http://www.thesun.co.uk/sol/homepage/news/6560352/Baron-John-Sewel-drug-binges-with-prostitutes.html}{released
a video} that showed him consuming a white powder.

These days, members are less likely to be scions of the landed
aristocracy than politicians, advisers or party supporters, ennobled as
a reward for loyal service or other (sometimes financial) contributions.

Yet that has not prevented some peers from behaving as if they had
strayed in from a distant country estate.

Last year, they
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2014/12/17/world/europe/save-a-few-pennies-on-champagne-lawmakers-in-britains-house-of-lords-are-aghast.html}{resisted
a cost-cutting measure to share catering services} with the House of
Commons, because the quality of their champagne might suffer.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/08/23/world/23LORDS_COMBO/23LORDS_COMBO-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

More recently, The Daily Mail
\href{http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-3134445/Whingeing-peers-lodge-string-complaints-exclusive-taxpayer-funded-restaurants-House-Lords.html\#ixzz3jCkDl9My}{highlighted
written complaints by unnamed lords and ladies} about the food they were
served, including one peer who moaned that a cheese crème brûlée
consumed in February ``wasn't very cheesy,'' and that a supreme of hake
was ``completely unadorned, with a hard crust on top.'' Another member
fumed that ``cabbage, broccoli, sprouts and spinach have almost vanished
completely in favor of root vegetables!''

Despite such privations, a seat in the Lords remains prized. With it
comes a title and the right to claim up to 300 pounds, or about \$470,
as a daily allowance for attending sessions (without having to give up
any other job). Benefits include a desk in the historic Parliament
buildings and access to facilities like a parking lot, restaurants and
watering holes, including the wood-paneled Bishops' Bar.

For those who have spent their lives in politics, the House of Lords is
also seductive because it gives them a public platform, and an
opportunity to shape laws, without the inconvenience of standing for
election.

Mr. Cameron's Conservative Party has the most members, 226, or 14 more
than the opposition Labour Party. But with many peers not attached to a
political party, that leaves the government vulnerable to defeats.

The political lineup is noticeably out of kilter with the results of
\href{http://www.nytimes.com/2015/05/09/world/europe/david-cameron-and-conservatives-emerge-victorious-in-british-election.html}{May's
general election}. For example, the centrist Liberal Democrats, who won
just eight seats in the House of Commons and 7.9 percent of the vote in
May, have 101 seats in the upper chamber.

Despite such anomalies, the assembly survives partly because it knows
its place. As an unelected body, the Lords will ultimately yield on
legislation if the elected House of Commons so demands. That avoids the
type of gridlock sometimes seen in bicameral legislatures in other
nations, including the United States.

``One of its virtues is that it is different from the Commons,'' said
Elizabeth Gibson-Morgan, a constitutional expert who teaches both in
France and at King's College London. ``Turning it into an elected house
would turn it into a clone of the Commons.''

But even before the latest scandal, there was growing opposition to
enlarging the Lords, especially while Mr. Cameron has vowed to trim the
House of Commons from 650 members to 600 to ``cut the cost of
politics.''

Though much less expensive to the taxpayer per seat than the salaried
legislators in the Commons, costs in the House of Lords are under
scrutiny.
\href{http://www.electoral-reform.org.uk/press-releases}{According to
the Electoral Reform Society report}, in the 2010-2015 Parliament, peers
who failed to vote even once in some years claimed a total of £360,000
in allowances, and the appointment of an additional 50 members would
cost ``at least £1.3 million per year.''

Kirsty Blackman, a member of the Scottish National Party who was
recently elected to the House of Commons, described the House of Lords
as bloated, outdated, undemocratic and a ``horrendous waste of money.''

But Dr. Gibson-Morgan, who is married to the Labour peer and historian
\href{http://www.parliament.uk/biographies/lords/lord-morgan/2555}{Lord
Kenneth Morgan}, highlighted the chamber's expertise on constitutional
and civil liberties issues.

Possible improvements, she said, could include tougher vetting of
potential members, and updated retirement rules. (Only since the
beginning of the decade has it been possible for peers to retire, and
retirement remains voluntary.)

Dr. Gibson-Morgan said she also believed members could be nominated in a
way that gave clearer representation to Scotland, Wales, Northern
Ireland and the English regions, easing the strains within Britain
highlighted by recent pressure for Scottish independence.

But she contrasted the size of the House of Lords to that of France's
second chamber, the Senate, which, with 348 members, is less than half
its size.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
