Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}After Early
Success, Israel's Netanyahu Faces Fury for Flubbing Virus Fight

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jD5wXl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/04/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-early-success-israels-netanyahu-faces-fury-for-flubbing-virus-fight}{%
\section{After Early Success, Israel's Netanyahu Faces Fury for Flubbing
Virus
Fight}\label{after-early-success-israels-netanyahu-faces-fury-for-flubbing-virus-fight}}

With infections spiking again, young Israelis are protesting what they
see as chaotic handling of the health and economic crisis.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/world/24israel-netanyahu/merlin_174884844_64fd8596-ca6f-452e-8078-5cd65b99362e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabel-kershner}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/12/multimedia/author-isabel-kershner/author-isabel-kershner-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/isabel-kershner}{Isabel
Kershner}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

JERUSALEM --- For three nights this week thousands of young Israelis,
provoked by what they see as Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's flubbed
response to the coronavirus scourge, shook off a long political slumber,
blocked the streets outside his official residence and demanded that he
quit.

Many were not even of voting age when Mr. Netanyahu took office in
Israel 11 years ago. But their anger signaled that his storied political
survival skills are confronting a new risk. ``We have woken up,'' read
an enormous banner on a nearby building.

``We've learned that we have to look out for ourselves,'' said Maayan
Shrem, 25, a youth counselor and former combat soldier who came to
Thursday night's protest from his hometown, Karmiel, a two-hour bus ride
from Jerusalem. Holding a placard that read ``We will not cease to fight
for our country,'' his friend, Oren Gery, 26, added, ``Change has to
come from the bottom up.''

While the fury reflects a multitude of grievances, they have converged
around one man: a prime minister who is a defendant in a corruption
trial is now blamed for a colossal failure in dealing with the health
and economic crises caused by the virus pandemic, and is resorting to
what critics call
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/18/world/middleeast/israel-virus-netanyahu.html?searchResultPosition=2}{undemocratic
measures} to retain power.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/24/world/24israel-netanyahu2/merlin_174885033_d3260872-d9f8-4a5e-8fba-0384b7683d75-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The public revolt signals yet another stunning turnaround for Mr.
Netanyahu, Israel's longest serving prime minister, who has managed to
cling to his seat through three touch-and-go elections since April 2019.

Above all, a prevailing sense of chaos pervades the government's
handling of the recent resurgence of the virus, prompting growing
criticism even from the heart of Mr. Netanyahu's conservative Likud
party.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T07:33:06.428Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``There's a disconnect between the government and the public and the
local authorities,'' Haim Bibas, the Likud mayor of the central city of
Modiin and the powerful chairman of the Federation of Local Authorities
in Israel, said in an interview on Friday. The local authorities have
been instrumental in battling the virus on the ground.

``It feels as if there is no leadership and no governance,'' said Mr.
Bibas, who has run election campaigns for Mr. Netanyahu.

Just two months ago, Mr. Netanyahu appeared to have outsmarted political
adversaries for what seemed like the umpteenth time. He formed a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/17/world/middleeast/israel-netanyahu-gantz-government.html?searchResultPosition=16}{national
unity government}with his main rival, the centrist Benny Gantz,
neutralizing him as an opposition force.

Praised for his
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/13/world/middleeast/israel-coronavirus-netanyahu.html?searchResultPosition=1}{initial
success} in handling the pandemic and with coronavirus wards closing for
lack of patients, he abruptly opened up the economy in late May to try
to resuscitate jobs and commerce, telling Israelis in a televised
victory address to get some air, grab a coffee or a beer and, while
taking the necessary precautions, to ``Go out and have a good time.''

Image

Thousands of Israelis, provoked by what they see as Mr. Netanyahu's
flubbed response to the coronavirus scourge, demonstrated near his
official residence and demanded that he quit.Credit...Atef Safadi/EPA,
via Shutterstock

An international survey published May 19 by the Israeli Keevoon research
group and the German Konrad Adenauer Foundation found 67 percent of
Israelis happy with his handling of the crisis, one of the top scores.
Mr. Netanyahu's Likud party was soaring in the opinion polls.

Within weeks, everything went awry.

Daily infections rapidly spiked, from double-digit figures in May to
\href{https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus-data-explorer?zoomToSelection=true\&country=~ISR\&casesMetric=true\&dailyFreq=true\&hideControls=true\&smoothing=0\&pickerMetric=location\&pickerSort=asc}{about
2,000 per day now.} All children were sent back to school to finish the
semester before summer break, which caused new outbreaks. The government
zigzagged, sometimes within the space of a hot summer day, on policies
regarding the opening and closing of restaurants, swimming pools and
beaches, leaving Israelis bewildered. Nearly a million people were by
now unemployed out of a population of nine million. Many self-employed
Israelis whose businesses were wiped out had received pittances in state
assistance or nothing at all.

No clear plans had been made for a second wave of the virus. Now, some
polls show only about a third of Israelis are satisfied with Mr.
Netanyahu's handling of the crisis.

Instead of focusing on the economic distress, Mr. Netanyahu took time to
obtain government approval for nine years of retroactive tax refunds on
his personal expenses, worth more than \$250,000. (He later apologized
for the insensitive timing.) And he invested huge efforts in plans to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/01/world/middleeast/israel-annexation-netanyahu-johnson.html?searchResultPosition=3}{annex
parts of the occupied West Bank}, an issue that few Israelis cared
about.

``Prime Minister Netanyahu turned all of his energies and clout toward
the possible annexation at a time when millions of Israelis were
concerned with the possible annexation of their own homes by their
landlords and the banks because they can't pay their rents and
mortgages,'' said Mitchell Barak, an Israeli pollster and director of
Keevoon, the research group, who worked as an aide to Mr. Netanyahu in
the 1990s.

Adding to the tumult, a Jerusalem court decided this month that the next
phase of Mr. Netanyahu's trial will begin in January, with three
hearings a week. He has been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/28/world/middleeast/benjamin-netanyahu-indictment.html?searchResultPosition=4}{charged
with bribery, fraud and breach of trust}.

Image

Supporters of Mr. Netanyahu protesting outside the Jerusalem District
Court during a hearing in his trial this month.Credit...Abir Sultan/EPA,
via Shutterstock

Political analysts say that fear of a possible future Supreme Court
ruling calling on him to suspend himself from office is driving Mr.
Netanyahu to consider engineering a fourth election as early as
November, in the hope of winning enough of a majority to grant him some
immunity from prosecution.

A budget dispute between Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz could offer a
pretext. Mr. Gantz is insisting on a two-year budget, in line with their
coalition agreement, while Mr. Netanyahu is insisting on a single-year
budget. Without an agreement by an Aug. 25 deadline Parliament will
automatically disperse, sending an election-weary populace back to the
ballot box three months later.

Image

Mr. Netanyahu with his coalition partner, Benny Gantz, during a Cabinet
meeting last month.Credit...Pool photo by Menahem Kahana

``The question is who will blink first,'' said Ayelet Frish, an Israeli
political consultant.

The government, in the meantime, pushed through contentious legislation
this week granting itself powers to decree emergency regulations to
fight the coronavirus, a measure that many critics have described as a
perversion of the democratic process.

In a sign of growing infighting and dysfunction, Israel Katz, the Likud
finance minister, and Miki Zohar, the Likud whip and coalition chairman,
publicly accused each other of advocating for the opening up of
businesses owned by their relatives.

Even a plan hastily announced by Mr. Netanyahu in mid-July
\href{https://en.globes.co.il/en/article-netanyahu-announces-grants-for-all-israelis-to-stimulate-economy-1001335997}{to
give every Israeli an immediate, one-time cash gift} worth more than
\$200 backfired. Finance officials panned it as populist and unhelpful.
Mr. Gantz insisted that the richest receive less than the poorest.
Thousands of Israelis pledged to give their money to charity, accusing
Mr. Netanyahu of trying to bribe protesters into submission.

No payments have been made yet. Protests have swelled.

Mr. Netanyahu has blamed Finance Ministry bureaucrats for the shambles
in distributing assistance and has denounced the street protests as the
work of leftists, a code word in right-wing circles for unpatriotic
Israelis.

``The cat is out of the bag,'' Mr. Netanyahu
\href{https://twitter.com/netanyahu/status/1284764559803322368}{wrote}
on Twitter after a Palestinian flag was briefly raised at one protest
outside his official residence.

The neighbors, including Mr. Netanyahu's younger son, Avner, have
complained about the noise. Police have dispersed the protests after
midnight with water cannons.

``I am here because I've had enough,'' said Tzlil Levi, 28, a student of
law and social work, at Thursday's protest. She said she was no leftist.
But, she added, ``There's no leadership. This is not about left or
right. This is a political collapse.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
