Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Leaps to Call Shots on
Reopening Nation, Setting Up Standoff With Governors

\url{https://nyti.ms/3a8d2Dw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb57520-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb59c30-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb59c31-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb59c32-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb59c33-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=7bb5c340-f4bc-11ea-bc13-db3a9dba292a\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

news analysis

\hypertarget{trump-leaps-to-call-shots-on-reopening-nation-setting-up-standoff-with-governors}{%
\section{Trump Leaps to Call Shots on Reopening Nation, Setting Up
Standoff With
Governors}\label{trump-leaps-to-call-shots-on-reopening-nation-setting-up-standoff-with-governors}}

The president's insistence that only he can decide if the country should
reopen for business was disputed by constitutional scholars and
contrasted with his earlier message that it was not for the federal
government to take the lead in fighting the virus.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/04/13/us/politics/13dc-virus-trump-01/13dc-virus-trump-01-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie
Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  April 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- There once was a time when President Trump made clear
that governors were the ones mainly responsible for the fight against
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus}{the
coronavirus} pandemic. But that was Sunday. On Monday, he declared that
he was really in charge and would make the decision about when and how
to reopen the country.

The president's reversal raised profound constitutional questions about
the real extent of his powers and set him once again on a potential
collision course with the states. For weeks, he sought to shift blame to
the governors for any failures in handling the virus, presenting himself
as merely a supporting player. Now as the tide begins to turn, he is
claiming the lead role.

``The president of the United States calls the shots,'' he said at his
evening news briefing. ``They can't do anything without the approval of
the president of the United States.''

Asked what provisions of the Constitution gave him the power to override
the states if they wanted to remain closed, he said, ``Numerous
provisions,'' without naming any. ``When somebody's the president of the
United States, the authority is total.''

The schism threatens widespread confusion if the president and governors
end up at loggerheads over how and when to begin resuming some semblance
of normal life in the country once the risk of the virus begins to fade
sufficiently. Conflicting orders by Washington and state capitals would
leave businesses and workers in the untenable position of trying to
decide which level of government to listen to when it comes to reopening
doors and returning to their jobs.

The shift was just the latest of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/us/politics/trump-coronavirus-news-briefings.html}{many
conflicting messages} sent by Mr. Trump during the course of the
pandemic. At various points, he has played down the seriousness of the
coronavirus, then called it the most serious situation the nation has
ever confronted. He has defended China for its handling of the original
outbreak, and assailed China for its handling of the original outbreak.
He has called for strict social distancing, then called for reopening by
Easter, then called off the plan to reopen.

Just Sunday, he took aim at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/02/podcasts/the-daily/coronavirus-fauci.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{Dr.
Anthony S. Fauci}, the federal government's top infectious disease
specialist, provoking widespread concern. Hours after the doctor
acknowledged that earlier action could have saved lives, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/us/politics/trump-fauci-coronavirus.html}{reposted
a Twitter message} that said,
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1249470237726081030}{``Time
to \#FireFauci.''} On Monday, the president said he would not fire Dr.
Fauci and dismissed the idea that anyone would think he would do what he
retweeted.

The tension with the governors over reopening comes at a critical moment
in the crisis as national and state leaders facing the dual calamities
of a deadly pandemic and a cratering economy try to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/10/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-economy.html}{calibrate
when it would be safe to resume business and social life} without
resulting in a second wave of disease and death.

The president spent Monday assembling advisory committees with officials
like Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and a host of other cabinet
secretaries, but he later ruled out his eldest daughter, Ivanka Trump,
and son-in-law, Jared Kushner, despite earlier discussion about
including them.

Outside figures could also be seated, including investors and executives
like Stephen A. Schwarzman from Blackstone, according to a person
familiar with the discussions. It was unclear whether any public health
officials like Dr. Fauci would be part of the new task force, which may
be announced as early as Tuesday.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-12T05:29:13.829Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-dfb8a16}{Fauci
  cautions the virus could disrupt life in the U.S. until `maybe even
  towards the end of 2021.'}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-7104d154}{From
  Asia to Africa, China promotes its vaccine candidates to win friends.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-393ad215}{The
  other way the virus will kill: hunger.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Mr. Trump said that he would consult with the governors, but they have
made clear that they did not intend to wait for or defer to him. Seven
governors from the Northeast, including one Republican, announced on
Monday a joint effort to plan for a reopening while three Democratic
governors from the West Coast did the same.

Mr. Trump appeared eager to get out in front of the train. ``For the
purpose of creating conflict and confusion, some in the Fake News Media
are saying that it is the Governors decision to open up the states, not
that of the President of the United States \& the Federal Government,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1249712404260421633}{he
wrote Monday morning on Twitter}. ``Let it be fully understood that this
is incorrect. It is the decision of the President, and for many good
reasons.''

``With that being said,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1249712413219397632}{he
added}, ``the Administration and I are working closely with the
Governors, and this will continue. A decision by me, in conjunction with
the Governors and input from others, will be made shortly!''

His social media claim to power was instantly disputed by constitutional
scholars and contrasted with his message until now that the states were
at fault for not stockpiling enough ventilators, masks and other
equipment and that it was not for the federal government to take the
lead. ``We're not a shipping clerk,'' he said at one point.

Less than 24 hours before his decision-by-me tweets, he was still
putting the onus for the pandemic response on the states. ``Governors,
get your states testing programs \& apparatus perfected,''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1249453028178001920}{he
tweeted}. ``Be ready, big things are happening. No excuses! The Federal
Government is there to help. We are testing more than any country in the
World. Also, gear up with Face Masks!''

Even at Monday's daily news briefing, he took further jabs at the
governors. ``Many of them didn't do their jobs,'' he said. ``We helped
some of the ones who didn't know what they were doing.''

But the president appears interested in getting credit for the
reopening, as more than 16 million people have filed for unemployment in
the past few weeks.

The notion that Mr. Trump would be the one to decide about reopening
struck governors as rich given that he never ordered the country closed
in the first place. The decisions to shut down schools, colleges,
sporting events, concerts and everyday life were made by governors,
mayors and individual executives. The president remained largely on the
sidelines as they moved ahead without guidance from him.

Only after New York, California and other large states ordered such
actions did Mr. Trump weigh in with guidelines from the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommending social distancing measures
--- like no gatherings of 10 or more people --- advice that was
important in establishing a national standard, but it was not binding.

Mr. Trump initially set the guidelines for two weeks, and only after
lobbying by public health officials, did he extend them to April 30. But
he claimed credit on Monday for the states' actions. ``That's because I
let that happen,'' he said.

The governors expressed astonishment. ``You want to now say the federal
government is in charge?'' Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York said on
MSNBC. ``Which by the way is a shift because the federal government
didn't close down the economy, right? They left it to the states. It was
state by state, it was a whole hodgepodge, the governors had to close
the economy, which was not politically easy to do, but now the federal
government says it can open it? Well then, why didn't you close it if
you can open it?''

Even some sympathetic constitutional scholars said Mr. Trump could not.
``There is no authority for a president to order states to `open up' if
the state believes that such an order would be inimical to public
health,'' said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington
University who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/04/us/politics/jonathan-turley.html}{testified
last year against impeachment in the House}. ``The president had no
authority to order a national lockdown and certainly does not have
authority to now order the lifting of such orders issued by governors.''

That does not mean that Mr. Trump's decision on reopening the country is
not meaningful. Even if he does not have direct authority to impose his
will, any guidelines he issues may go a long way toward setting a
standard that states and cities could follow, especially in Republican
states that have taken their lead from him.

But some critics said he looked like he was debating himself at the
podium. ``I think the thing that's unsettling to the public isn't just
the absence of consistent guidance,'' said David Axelrod, a former
adviser to President Barack Obama. ``It's the revelation that the person
in charge is unsure.''

With Mr. Trump's approval ratings slipping, some of his conservative
allies are concerned that he is not connecting with his core base of
supporters.

Conservative organizations plan to join forces to weigh in on when and
at what level certain parts of the country can be reopened. They plan to
stay in touch with health professionals working within the White House
and outside it, but there is some worry about waning patience with big
government spending to relieve the effects of the virus, according to a
person familiar with the discussions.

``The government needs to start looking at how we can quickly begin to
reopen the economy in stages and communicate that plan, but it's also
vital that states and the federal government reduce the excessive
regulatory burden to reignite the economy when we get back to work,''
said David McIntosh, the president of the Club for Growth, a
conservative advocacy group.

The president's task force, according to people informed about it, will
include members of the cabinet, including Mr. Mnuchin; Wilbur L. Ross
Jr., the commerce secretary; Sonny Perdue, the agriculture secretary;
Elaine Chao, the transportation secretary; Dan Brouillette, the energy
secretary; Eugene Scalia, the labor secretary; Ben Carson, the housing
secretary; Robert Lighthizer, the trade representative; and Russell T.
Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget.

The membership raised questions about how much questions of public
health will figure into the president's decision. Peter Navarro, the
president's trade adviser who is managing the manufacture of medical
equipment to address the pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/13/us/politics/peter-navarro-coronavirus.html}{said
in an interview} that the health specialists were not fully attentive to
the economic costs of the shutdown.

``It's disappointing that so many of the medical experts and pundits
pontificating in the press appear tone deaf to the very significant
losses of life and blows to American families that may result from an
extended economic shutdown,'' he said.

Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.
Alan Rappeport contributed reporting from Washington.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
