Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/technology}{Technology}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/technology}{Technology}\textbar{}Is TikTok a Good Buy? It
Depends on What's Included

\url{https://nyti.ms/2PnlLtT}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Shift

\hypertarget{is-tiktok-a-good-buy-it-depends-on-whats-included}{%
\section{Is TikTok a Good Buy? It Depends on What's
Included}\label{is-tiktok-a-good-buy-it-depends-on-whats-included}}

TikTok's most valuable assets, a hyper-effective algorithm and a
community of popular creators, may not be as easy to acquire as the
company itself.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/05/business/05ROOSE/merlin_174066492_e5a3c89a-eb4d-44c0-98fc-ce62e0949c06-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kevin-roose}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kevin-roose/author-kevin-roose-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kevin-roose}{Kevin Roose}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Aug. 5, 2020Updated Aug. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/technology/20200805/tiktok-deal-algorithm/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/technology/20200805/tiktok-deal-algorithm/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

TikTok is going to get acquired or die trying.

The hit video app appears headed for a shotgun wedding after President
Trump has decided to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/tiktok-bytedance-us-china.html}{force
its owner}, the Chinese tech conglomerate ByteDance, to sell
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/technology/trump-oracle-tiktok.html}{TikTok}
to an American acquirer or be barred from operating in the country. On
Monday, the president --- acting as a combination of investment banker,
regulator, and back-room mafioso ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/03/technology/trump-tiktok-microsoft.html}{said
he would approve a bid} by Microsoft for TikTok's U.S. operations,
provided that both parties meet his as-yet-unspecified demands and hit a
Sept. 15 deadline.

There are a million questions still swirling around a possible
TikTok-Microsoft deal. But the most glaring question mark is that nobody
I've talked to has figured out exactly what ``buying TikTok'' will mean,
or whether what many experts consider TikTok's golden goose --- the
complex algorithms that make the app so addictive --- would be included
in a deal.

A Microsoft spokesman declined to comment. A TikTok spokeswoman, Ashley
Nash-Hahn, declined to offer details about what parts of TikTok's
technology were and weren't up for sale.

``While we do not comment on rumors or speculation, we are confident in
the long-term success of TikTok,'' she said in an emailed statement.

Some corporate acquisitions are straightforward. In the simplest kind of
deal --- say, a big restaurant buying a smaller restaurant --- the
acquirer buys everything on the other company's balance sheet: all its
assets and liabilities, including its kitchen equipment, its secret
recipes, and any real estate it owns. Lawyers and bankers try to place a
value on those things, and estimate the company's future cash flows.
Then they hash out terms, negotiate a price and sign a deal.

A TikTok acquisition is far, far more complicated.

For starters, even though TikTok has gone to great lengths to distance
itself from its Chinese parent company, the app is still very tightly
integrated with ByteDance's Chinese operations. As
\href{https://www.theinformation.com/articles/breaking-off-tiktok-will-be-hard-to-do}{The
Information recently reported}, most of TikTok's core features were
developed by ByteDance's Chinese engineers using a suite of shared
software tools --- known as ``zhongtai,'' or ``central platform'' ---
that is available to all of ByteDance's more than two dozen apps. And
most of the important decisions about TikTok's operations and strategy
have been made by executives in China.

Separating TikTok from ByteDance would, by definition, require
untangling many of these Chinese connections. That could present
problems. Many of TikTok's top American executives --- including Kevin
Mayer, its chief executive --- are new to the company, and presumably
still getting up to speed. And while TikTok does have engineers based in
the United States who could theoretically help with the technical
untangling, many of the engineers with the deepest knowledge of TikTok's
systems are presumably Chinese nationals in Beijing.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/05/business/05roose2/merlin_175255698_c475b9d0-de12-4f01-adc9-b13743043bc4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

And what about the algorithm? By all accounts, TikTok's core algorithm
--- which selects videos for the central feed users see when they open
the app, called the ``for you page'' or FYP --- could be the most
valuable asset the company owns. Eugene Wei, a longtime tech executive
and blogger, likens TikTok's FYP algorithm to
\href{https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2020/8/3/tiktok-and-the-sorting-hat}{the
Sorting Hat} from the Harry Potter series --- a ``rapid, hyper-efficient
matchmaker'' that analyzes users' behavior and places them into
personalized niches, based on their interests.

The FYP algorithm is TikTok's secret sauce, and a big part of what makes
it so accurate is ByteDance's global reach. Every swipe, tap and video
viewed by TikTok users around the world --- billions and billions of
data points a day --- is fed into giant databases, which are then used
to train artificial intelligence to predict which videos will keep
users' attention.

Sometimes, that might mean showing American users videos made in India
or China. (I once fell into a delightful rabbit hole of TikTok dances by
multigenerational Chinese families.) Other times, it could mean using
data from one country's users to inform another country's
recommendations. It could even mean using data gleaned from an entirely
different ByteDance app --- such as Douyin, the Chinese equivalent of
TikTok --- to inform what TikTok users are shown.

ByteDance considers itself, first and foremost, an
\href{https://fortune.com/longform/tiktok-app-artificial-intelligence-addictive-bytedance-china/}{A.I.
company}. And the nature of building A.I. is that the more data you
have, the better your algorithms generally are. Would an American TikTok
algorithm, trained only on American users' data, be less addictive? It's
certainly possible.

But even if ByteDance was willing to part with TikTok's algorithms and
the machine learning models they rely on --- a big if --- it's not clear
that an American acquirer would be able to recreate TikTok's magic right
away.

Karl Higley, a recommender systems engineer who previously worked at
Spotify, said that without access to historical data --- data about what
TikTok's users swiped, tapped and lingered on weeks or months earlier
--- a new, Americanized TikTok might essentially need to start from
scratch.

``In order to personalize the app for existing users, they're going to
need historical data for U.S. folks unless they want to wipe the slate
clean, which would be a terrible user experience,'' Mr. Higley said.

American tech giants, of course, are no slouches when it comes to
building addictive algorithms. And it's possible that an American-owned
TikTok could rebuild the app's core technology without users even
noticing a difference. But it's not trivial work, and it could take
months or years to do --- months or years in which Facebook, Snapchat
and other competitors would be nipping at TikTok's heels. And if users
sensed that their algorithm was degrading in the meantime, or showing
them fewer interesting videos than it once did, they could be tempted to
jump ship.

In addition to recreating TikTok's algorithms, an American acquirer
would also need to work quickly to preserve TikTok's other valuable
asset: its creator culture. As
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/02/style/tiktok-ban-threat-trump.html}{my
colleague Taylor Lorenz has written}, TikTok is home to a large, vibrant
community of creative talent, some of whom make a full-time living from
the app. Those people are attracted to TikTok partly because the
platform gives them a way to reach a mass audience. But they're also
attracted to it because TikTok has cultivated an aura of cool through
advertising, striking partnerships with music festivals and other
popular events, and hosting exclusive parties for TikTok creators at
industry events like VidCon.

Already, Facebook is
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/facebook-seeks-to-reel-in-tiktok-creators-raising-stakes-in-social-media-rivalry-11595928600}{reportedly
trying to poach popular TikTok creators}for Instagram Reels, its new
TikTok clone, by dangling six-figure deals in front of them. And if
TikTok is acquired by Microsoft --- a company not historically known for
its youth appeal --- creators could sense that it's time to move on.

TikTok could try to lower the risk for an acquirer by striking multiyear
exclusive deals with its most popular American creators, the way that
platforms like YouTube and Twitch have done. It could also accelerate
its plans to let popular users earn money from the platform. But without
a firm grip on its A-list talent, TikTok's acquirer won't be assured
that the platform isn't losing its edge.

Hank Green, a YouTube star and chief executive of the education company
Complexly, who has more than 600,000 followers on TikTok, said that a
TikTok acquisition could make creators more skeptical of the company's
motives.

``One of the things about TikTok is they've been able to make lots of
changes really fast, and people are open and receptive to that,'' Mr.
Green said. ``If you see that change as coming from outside the
ecosystem, that can feel like a foreign change.''

Many of the people I spoke to agreed that even with the potential
pitfalls and unresolved questions, the opportunity to buy TikTok is a
once-in-a-decade deal for the right acquirer. Popular, growing social
networks are exceedingly rare, and TikTok has already made itself a
fixture of American culture in a way that few other apps ever have.

``TikTok is compelling, not just because of its large and growing user
base, but also because of its platform potential to expand into
e-commerce and livestreaming,'' said Connie Chan, a partner at the
venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. ``Video is a fantastic way to
sell things and short videos are perfect for product discovery.''

Mr. Green, the YouTube star, agreed.

``If I had the opportunity to buy TikTok, I'd buy TikTok,'' he said.
``There's so much value on that platform right now that is completely
untapped.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
