Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}\textbar{}Trump Has Failed the QAnon
Test

\url{https://nyti.ms/31qMRqN}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-has-failed-the-qanon-test}{%
\section{Trump Has Failed the QAnon
Test}\label{trump-has-failed-the-qanon-test}}

Past Republican leaders knew better than to allow the pathogens of
extreme conspiracy theories to infect the political bloodstream.

By Geoffrey Kabaservice

Mr. Kabaservice is the author of ``Rule and Ruin: The Downfall of
Moderation and the Destruction of the Republican Party.''

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/25/opinion/25Kabaservice/25Kabaservice-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump has
\href{https://www.mediamatters.org/twitter/fbi-calls-qanon-domestic-terror-threat-trump-has-amplified-qanon-supporters-twitter-more-20}{flirted}
with the convoluted
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/technology/qanon-tea-party.html}{QAnon}
conspiracy theory for months. Last week, he gave a full embrace to its
followers,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/politics/trump-qanon-conspiracy-theories.html}{telling}
reporters that its believers are patriots ``who love our country.'' Over
70 QAnon supporters have
\href{https://www.mediamatters.org/qanon-conspiracy-theory/here-are-qanon-supporters-running-congress-2020}{run}
for Congress as Republicans this year.

At least one of them, Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, will probably
join the House next year. Despite her QAnon advocacy and a history of
racist and Islamophobic rants on social media, Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.mcclatchydc.com/news/politics-government/article244904722.html}{hailed
her} as a ``future Republican star.''

Most people refer to QAnon as a fringe movement. But that no longer
makes sense: Under Mr. Trump, it has become part of the Republican
mainstream ---~and that has troubling implications for the party's
future.

The QAnon movement routinely deploys
\href{https://forward.com/news/national/451647/just-how-anti-semitic-is-qanon/}{racist
and anti-Semitic tropes}; it has even been identified as a potential
domestic terrorism
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/fbi-warns-against-qanon-pizzagate-in-report-highlighting-dangers-of-fringe-conspiracy-theories}{threat}
by the F.B.I. Yet a majority of Republican leaders have refrained from
criticizing the president for legitimizing it. They do not seem bothered
that the conspiracists, without a shred of proof, declare Democrats to
be part of a ``deep state'' cabal of satanic, child-molesting cannibals
and call for the president to imprison and execute them.

A handful of the least Trump-dependent Republicans have pushed back.
Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming
\href{https://www.axios.com/liz-cheney-qanon-republican-dangerous-lunacy-23c2b455-7b3a-4199-9a0e-1176682492b0.html}{called}
QAnon ``dangerous lunacy that should have no place in American
politics.'' Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois
\href{https://www.newsbreak.com/news/2042901802796/rep-kinzinger-warns-against-qanon-fabrication}{termed}
it ``a fabrication.'' (For that, a Trump campaign official actually
\href{https://www.forbes.com/sites/andrewsolender/2020/08/12/top-trump-campaign-staffer-slams-gop-congressman-for-calling-qanon-a-fabrication/\#687a474c31a0}{attacked}
him.)

Past Republican leaders knew better than to allow the pathogens of
extreme conspiracy theories to infect the political bloodstream. The
conservative movement that now dominates the party always had a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/11/magazine/i-thought-i-understood-the-american-right-trump-proved-me-wrong.html}{dark
side}, but its leaders understood that conspiracy cults are lethal to
the social trust on which democracy depends. They also realized it was
in the best interest of their movement to marginalize its cranks and
kooks.

QAnon presents the same kind of threat to the Republican Party that the
far-right
\href{https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2016/01/11/a-view-from-the-fringe}{John
Birch Society} did in the late 1950s and '60s. The Birchers trafficked
in similar concepts of an evil elite corrupting and betraying the
country. The society's founder, the retired candy-maker Robert Welch,
\href{https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/07/16/the-john-birch-society-is-alive-and-well-in-the-lone-star-state-215377}{considered}
even President Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican, to be ``a conscious,
dedicated'' Communist agent.

Birchers were never more than a
\href{https://www.splcenter.org/fighting-hate/intelligence-report/2013/bringing-back-birch}{small
fraction} of Republicans. But in some key states like California, they
made up a sizable share of the party's primary voters, donors and
activists --- what we now would call ``the base.'' Barry Goldwater
became the 1964 Republican presidential nominee in part thanks to their
efforts.

Even so, many Republican officials were willing to condemn the Birch
Society, particularly after public revulsion over right-wing extremism
(among other factors) contributed to the party's catastrophic losses in
the 1964 elections. Robert Taft Jr., the son and grandson of famous
conservative politicians, emphasized that extremism was alien to
Republican philosophy and that the party should not be ``a home for the
John Birch Society, the Ku Klux Klan, or any similar group.''

Ray Bliss, who became chairman of the Republican National Committee
after Goldwater's defeat,
\href{https://www.beaconjournal.com/article/20130201/OPINION/302019041}{called
upon} Republicans to reject membership in any organization that
``attempts to use the Republican Party for its own ends.'' He singled
out ``irresponsible radicals such as Robert Welch.'' Mr. Bliss repressed
primary challenges from the right, worked to exclude Birchers from
positions of power within the party and cooperated with moderate and
conservative activists to prevent Phyllis Schlafly from winning the
presidency of the National Federation of Republican Women.

William F. Buckley Jr., the pre-eminent conservative leader of the
1960s, tried to read the Birch Society
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB120413132440097025}{out of his
movement}. He felt that the Birchers' conspiracies discredited
conservatism by making it seem ``ridiculous and pathological.'' The
absurd claims also turned off a young generation who laughed along with
Bob Dylan's
\href{http://www.bobdylan.com/songs/talkin-john-birch-paranoid-blues/}{derisive}
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AylFqdxRMwE}{Talkin' John Birch
Paranoid Blues}.''

Mr. Buckley
\href{https://books.google.com/books?id=aBEpI5h9gAUC\&pg=PA200\&lpg=PA200\&dq=john+judis+william+f+buckley+crackpot+alley\&source=bl\&ots=UbBLMVoPGU\&sig=ACfU3U2xd1iiARziNMlQBdps-MQ5TIVxDA\&hl=en\&sa=X\&ved=2ahUKEwiH1qKlpqPrAhWOoHIEHbxSB9oQ6AEwB3oECAoQAQ\#v=onepage\&q=john\%20judis\%20william\%20f\%20buckley\%20crackpot\%20alley\&f=false}{insisted
to a conservative critic} that to govern and expand, the movement had to
hold on to ``moderate, wishy-washy conservatives'' who made up a
majority of Republicans. ``If they think they are being asked to join a
movement whose leadership believes the drivel of Robert Welch,'' he
warned, ``they will pass by Crackpot Alley, and will not pause until
they feel the embrace of those way over on the other side, the
Liberals.''

Some historians consider Mr. Buckley's efforts to purge the Birch
Society to have been
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/15/opinion/steve-king.html}{too
little, too late}, and the Republican Party undeniably played on social
division and white backlash as it moved to the political right from the
1970s onward. But extremist groups like the Birchers were mostly
relegated to the fringes for many years. That was the foundation for
Republican presidential victories under Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan and
the two Bushes.

Today there are no gatekeepers of similar stature on the political
right, partly because of structural factors that have undercut the power
of parties. These include the decline of establishment-dominated
conventions and the rise of primaries, the growth of outside spending
groups and the proliferation of conservative media programming from the
likes of Fox News and Sinclair. It's also because of the unwillingness
of Republican and conservative leaders, over at least the past two
decades, to call out and challenge the growing extremism in their base.

There have been isolated exceptions. The party publicly
\href{https://www.nola.com/opinions/article_b617359d-6f5c-5398-9fbb-e3cef749755d.html}{condemned}
the former Klan wizard David Duke when he ran as a Republican in
Louisiana. John McCain, as the Republican presidential nominee in 2008,
\href{https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/8/25/17782572/john-mccain-barack-obama-statement-2008-video}{rejected}
the birther conspiracy theorists (including Mr. Trump). Last year, after
Steve King of Iowa defended white supremacy, the House Republican Caucus
\href{https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2019/1/14/18182956/steve-king-racist-gop-committee-removed}{stripped
him} of his committee memberships.

But so long as Mr. Trump remains president, there will be no such
actions against QAnon conspirators, no matter how extreme. Mr. Trump has
done nothing to broaden the Republican Party's appeal. His re-election
strategy rests entirely on stoking his followers' resentments --- and Q
believers who consider Democrats to be evil incarnate are integral to
his hopes for success.

Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, another Republican who has displayed
sporadic independence from Mr. Trump,
\href{https://www.axios.com/ben-sasse-qanon-trump-conspiracy-republican-1c6fe049-f934-465f-91c5-a8c48f802357.html}{called}
QAnon ``nuts'' and warned that if the Democrats retake control of the
Senate, ``garbage like this will be a big part of why they won.''
Republicans lost their House majority in 2018 in part because
college-educated suburbanites, who once reliably voted Republican,
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2018/11/08/midterms-suburbs-republicans-democrats-trump/1921590002/}{rejected}
Mr. Trump's elevation of anger and division over competent government.
If QAnon comes to define the Republican brand in the public mind, the
party may never regain its lost swing voters.

If Mr. Trump loses in November and takes Republican control of the
Senate down with him, the party's leaders may rethink the path that led
them to defeat. Perhaps they will remember the broad popularity the
party enjoyed for decades after it resisted earlier versions of QAnon
extremism and the ways in which that legacy has been squandered.

Geoffrey Kabaservice
(\href{https://twitter.com/RuleandRuin?ref_src=twsrc\%5Egoogle\%7Ctwcamp\%5Eserp\%7Ctwgr\%5Eauthor}{@ruleandruin})
is director of political studies at the Niskanen Center and the author
of ``Rule and Ruin: The Downfall of Moderation and the Destruction of
the Republican Party.''

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\emph{letters@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
