Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Swag, but No Luxury Suites:
Big Donors Endure a Party-Less Party Convention

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aBForH}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{swag-but-no-luxury-suites-big-donors-endure-a-party-less-party-convention}{%
\section{Swag, but No Luxury Suites: Big Donors Endure a Party-Less
Party
Convention}\label{swag-but-no-luxury-suites-big-donors-endure-a-party-less-party-convention}}

Democrats are scrambling to recreate the excitement of the D.N.C. with
virtual events, invite-only briefings and ``Joe 2020'' champagne flutes.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/19/us/politics/19Donors1/merlin_110375374_56ab4cc5-1fc5-4644-bef2-48dad556e149-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/27/multimedia/author-shane-goldmacher/author-shane-goldmacher-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/shane-goldmacher}{Shane
Goldmacher}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The confetti now comes in a bottle.

The Democrats' biggest donors are used to being feted at the party's
national convention, breezing through a maze of tiered luxury suites and
V.I.P. rooms with free-flowing appetizers, access and booze. This year,
though, even those who have given \$500,000 and up are stuck watching
the same virtual event from home as the rest of us.

So ahead of the week's virtual gathering, the party and the Biden
campaign mailed along a care package to tide over any forlorn
financiers: notebooks embossed with the number 46 (as in the potential
for Joseph R. Biden Jr. to be the 46th president), hats, buttons,
posters, a bag of ``Cup of Joe'' coffee (a moderate, friendly medium
roast) and a bottle of confetti to be deployed whenever the mood
strikes.

``I haven't quite figured that out yet,'' said Joseph Falk, a Democratic
donor and fund-raiser based in Florida. ``I presume I'll open it on
Thursday? Or maybe with Kamala Harris.''

Some donors have been posting pictures of their swag kits, arranging the
items just so to have the perfect Instagram or Facebook shot. The Biden
team ensured the package had daily credentials for display, even though
there are no security lines to be bypassed. The passes include, in all
caps, the words ``DELAWARE SUITE,'' even though no such thing exists
virtually.

As far as political flexes go, it's no selfie with a senator. But for
2020, it will have to suffice.

``In the age of social media, credential pics still have some
currency,'' said Nu Wexler, a Democratic communications consultant who
has been to the last six Democratic conventions.

Like nearly everything else in American life, the coronavirus pandemic
has upended the already cloistered world of political fund-raising, as
campaigns and contributors alike figure out how to raise tens of
millions of dollars without so much as a photo line (Zoom screenshots
are a poor substitute).

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``There is nothing like the excitement of being in the convention hall
and the daily nonstop of events, meetings and ad hoc hotel lobby
meetups,'' said Michael Kempner, a Democratic fund-raiser who has
previously raised money for both Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris, the
Democratic nominee for vice president. ``I am surprised how much I
already miss it.''

Tom Kemp, a tech entrepreneur in California, gave the Biden Victory Fund
\$100,000 in June, in what he called a bid to save democracy. He's never
been to a convention before.

``If I could have just had nosebleed seats, I would have been excited,''
Mr. Kemp said. ``It would have been a nice cherry on top.''

Before the virus canceled the in-person convention, a group of donors
affiliated with American Bridge 21st Century, a Democratic super PAC,
had reserved a prime luxury suite at the original Milwaukee convention
site. The group later received a refund from the host committee of more
than \$500,000, according to people familiar with the matter.

Now American Bridge, which had a reputation among donors for hosting
some particularly blowout bashes in the past, has arranged for nightly
preconvention virtual sessions, including one on Thursday with Chris
Dodd, the former senator who headed Mr. Biden's vice-presidential search
committee.

The rare hot ticket for this virtual convention is for Tuesday evening,
as donors to American Bridge will get a private session with Mary L.
Trump, the president's estranged niece, who wrote a recent tell-all book
on President Trump. She'll be taking questions with Tony Schwartz, the
ghost writer for Mr. Trump's ``The Art of the Deal,'' who has since
become critical of the president.

``We're always looking for creative ways to engage with our supporters,
keep them fired up, and get the word out about the work we're doing,''
said Bradley Beychok, the president of American Bridge.

Still, it's not the same as the serendipity of being there. Mr. Falk
said that ``one of the biggest joys'' of conventions was chance run-ins
with candidates and rising political stars at the convention site or in
hotel lobbies --- none of which are so easily recreated online.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/18/us/politics/18Donors-02/merlin_175823610_48183520-03cc-4144-9d32-b8d403f7ec82-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``How am I going to do that unofficially at the bar?'' he said.

It's not like top donors are getting no access. Some politicians are
offering themselves up via Zoom or other virtual platforms.

Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, who had been vetted by the Biden team
as a contender for the vice presidency, held an event for donors on
Monday before her speech. ``Appreciate how much you've done to help get
us here,'' said an invitation from one of her fund-raisers. Pete
Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Ind., and a former candidate
for president, will hold an ``investors circle reunion'' on Wednesday,
before he speaks the next day (suggested donation \$500, though any
member of his presidential finance committee is invited).

The Biden campaign has offered some password-protected private briefings
for top donors, including with Jennifer O'Malley Dillon, the campaign
manager, and Steve Ricchetti, the campaign chairman, who gave a
presentation on Monday. There is also exclusive ``special after hours''
programming for after the speeches end.

The lack of a convention is a blow to the political arms of House and
Senate Democrats, along with the Democratic Governors Association, which
lay out their plans to woo donors months in advance. The Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee is still offering up to \$35,500 packages
to donors to attend three briefings with various senators and Senate
candidates.

Some donors are fine missing out on the in-person festivities.

``Parties are nice and all that. But we have to win this election or
it's relatively obvious that democracy is going to take a huge hit,''
said Lou Frillman, a Democratic donor. As for his convention plans, he
said, ``I'll be three feet from the fridge and 10 feet from our bar.
That sounds OK to me.''

Donors who are still in the mood to celebrate did receive a pair of
``Joe 2020'' champagne flutes to fill up at home, though no wine to
actually put in the glasses.

The South Carolina Democratic Party, however, actually sent along a
bottle of chardonnay to its delegates. ``It's been an extremely hot
summer,'' explained Trav Robertson, the state party chairman. Buttons,
of course, are a swag standby. But new, and hopefully exclusively to
2020, are politically themed face masks.

The New Hampshire Democratic Party made special shirts for delegates
that read, ``I had a great time at the Democratic National Convention
Milwaukee'' --- except with ``Milwaukee'' crossed out and the words ``on
my couch'' inserted in red.

One poster sent along by the Biden campaign was unusual for an
all-virtual affair, even if it was a swipe at the current president's
habit of tweeting at all hours: ``Tweet less. Listen more,'' it reads.

``Are you asking me if this is as fun as a regular convention?'' said
Dick Harpootlian, a longtime Biden supporter and donor from South
Carolina. ``The answer's no.'' He said he missed the chance to see
friends and reminisce about old war stories.

``That not just missing from this convention,'' he added. ``It's missing
from life right now.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
