Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e574fda0-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e57524b0-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e57524b1-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e57524b2-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/us/politics/fda-coronavirus-vaccine.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e57524b3-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{F.D.A.
  Regulators' Self-Defense}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/upshot/coronavirus-surprise-test-fees.html?name=styln-coronavirus-markets\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=LegacyCollection\&impression_id=e57524b4-f4bc-11ea-b536-d1199c42b291\&variant=undefined}{Surprise
  Test Fees}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{wall-street-tumbles-as-tech-stocks-give-up-gains}{%
\section{Wall Street Tumbles as Tech Stocks Give Up
Gains}\label{wall-street-tumbles-as-tech-stocks-give-up-gains}}

Last Updated

Sept. 11, 2020, 6:08 a.m. ET

Sept. 11, 2020, 6:08 a.m. ET

The latest economic and business news during the coronavirus pandemic.

This briefing is no longer being updated.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{stocks-slide-with-technology-again-leading-the-decline}{}

  Stocks slide, with technology again leading the decline.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-remained-high-last-week}{}

  New claims for state unemployment benefits remained high last week.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{california-is-looking-into-fraud-in-a-pandemic-unemployment-program}{}

  California is looking into fraud in a pandemic unemployment program.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{pelotons-revenue-surges-172-percent-as-workouts-move-from-gym-to-home}{}

  Peloton's revenue surges 172 percent as workouts move from gym to
  home.
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{century-21-files-for-bankruptcy-closing-all-stores}{}

  Century 21 files for bankruptcy, closing all stores.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{stocks-slide-with-technology-again-leading-the-decline}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{stocks-slide-with-technology-again-leading-the-decline}{Stocks
slide, with technology again leading the
decline.}}{Stocks slide, with technology again leading the decline.}}\label{stocks-slide-with-technology-again-leading-the-decline}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Stocks on Wall Street were sharply lower Thursday, \textbf{with shares
  of large technology companies weighing the market down.} The S\&P 500
  fell 1.75 percent, while the Nasdaq composite slid 2 percent.
\item
  The decline is the fourth retreat in five trading sessions for the
  S\&P 500. On Wednesday, the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/wall-street-rallies-as-tech-rebounds-from-its-10-percent-slide}{S\&P
  500} had rebounded from the recent wave of selling with a gain of 2
  percent.
\item
  Oil prices also fell Thursday, and energy stocks were sharply lower.
  \textbf{Halliburton}, \textbf{Hess} and \textbf{Devon Energy} were
  among the worst performing stocks in the S\&P 500.
\item
  \textbf{Apple}, \textbf{Amazon}, \textbf{Microsoft} and
  \textbf{Google's} parent \textbf{Alphabet} were all lower, after
  giving up early gains.
\item
  Senate Republicans on Thursday failed to advance their substantially
  scaled-back stimulus plan amid opposition by Democrats who called the
  measure inadequate, underscoring the rapidly dwindling chances that
  Congress will enact another economic recovery measure to address the
  toll of the pandemic before November's elections.
\item
  More than 857,000 workers in the United States filed for state
  unemployment benefits last week, before seasonal adjustments, the
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/10/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus\#new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-remained-high-last-week}{Labor
  Department} reported. \textbf{The number of weekly claims has come
  down substantially} from late March and April, but the figure remains
  extraordinarily high by historical standards.
\item
  On Thursday, policymakers at the European Central Bank
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/business/ecb-euro.html}{concluded
  their monthly two-day meeting}, \textbf{without making any changes to
  their stimulus program or interest rates}.
\end{itemize}

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kevin-granville}{Kevin
Granville}

\hypertarget{new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-remained-high-last-week}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-remained-high-last-week}{New
claims for state unemployment benefits remained high last
week.}}{New claims for state unemployment benefits remained high last week.}}\label{new-claims-for-state-unemployment-benefits-remained-high-last-week}}

\hypertarget{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}{%
\subsubsection{Initial weekly unemployment claims, both regular claims
and those under the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
program}\label{initial-weekly-unemployment-claims-both-regular-claims-and-those-under-the-pandemic-unemployment-assistance-program}}

By Ella Koeze·Pandemic Unemployment Assistance extends eligibility to
some workers who would not otherwise be able to apply for unemployment
benefits, such as part-time and self-employed workers. Neither regular
claims nor P.U.A. claims are seasonally adjusted.·Source: Labor
Department

More than four months after Americans began emerging from the
coronavirus-caused lockdown across most states, the job market remains
treacherous, according to new
\href{https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf}{data from the Labor Department}.

More than 857,000 workers filed new claims for state unemployment
insurance last week, before seasonal adjustments, a slight increase from
the previous week. Although the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/business/economy/jobs-report.html}{unemployment
rate has fallen} to 8.4 percent, the level of layoffs reflects the
challenges for many workers in the fitful recovery.

On a seasonally adjusted basis, the total was 884,000, unchanged from
the revised figure for the previous week.

In addition, about 839,000 new claims were filed under a federal program
called Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, which provides assistance to
freelancers, part-time workers and others who do not ordinarily qualify
for state benefits. That figure, which is not seasonally adjusted,
represented a rise from 748,000 the previous week.

``It's a gut punch to see these numbers every Thursday with no
improvement,'' said Diane Swonk, chief economist at the accounting firm
Grant Thornton in Chicago. ``The numbers are going in the wrong
direction.''

Michael Gapen, chief U.S. economist at Barclays, said the latest numbers
``are part of a transition to a slower pace of recovery, and one that
will be more uneven.''

All told, nearly 30 million people were receiving unemployment benefits
in some form in the week that ended Aug. 22.

A wild card in the outlook is congressional standoff over another
coronavirus relief package. House Democrats have passed a \$3 trillion
bill that would restore a \$600 weekly unemployment benefit supplement
that expired in July. A much smaller Republican package reviving the
supplement at \$300 a week
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html\#link-3c53e6c9}{failed
to advance} in a Senate vote on Thursday.

President Trump ordered a stopgap
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/stimulus-unemployment-payment-benefit.html}{\$300-a-week
replacement} last month through the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
but it has been slow to get off the ground and has funds for only a few
weeks.

Eighteen states have begun making the payments, said Michele Evermore,
senior researcher and policy analyst at the National Employment Law
Project. ``It would have been so much easier and faster if Congress
would have passed an extension,'' she said.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nelson-d-schwartz}{Nelson D.
Schwartz}

\hypertarget{advertisement}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid1}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{california-is-looking-into-fraud-in-a-pandemic-unemployment-program}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{california-is-looking-into-fraud-in-a-pandemic-unemployment-program}{California
is looking into fraud in a pandemic unemployment
program.}}{California is looking into fraud in a pandemic unemployment program.}}\label{california-is-looking-into-fraud-in-a-pandemic-unemployment-program}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-calif/merlin_175989360_e45c4b61-8347-4828-9727-4e03432bedd1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

A federal program that didn't exist six months ago now provides benefits
to roughly 15 million jobless workers, more than the number collecting
traditional state unemployment benefits. And with the ballooning number
of recipients --- particularly in California --- have come questions
about potential fraud.

An official in Sacramento said that the state suspected that much of the
recent increase in claims was a result of fraud and that it was
investigating ``unscrupulous attacks'' that take advantage of identity
theft and other vulnerabilities in the system.

The federal program, known as Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, is
intended to help gig workers, part-timers, independent contractors and
the self-employed,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html\#link-2f8736c0}{who
are not ordinarily eligible for unemployment benefits}. It was created
as part of pandemic relief efforts enacted in March.

In the week that ended Aug. 22, 14.6 million people were collecting
benefits under the program, and nearly half were in California, the
\href{https://www.dol.gov/ui/data.pdf}{Labor Department said}.

A spokeswoman for the California Employment Development Department,
Loree Levy, said the state was ``aggressively fighting'' fraud in the
program.

``We do suspect that a big part of the unusual recent rise in P.U.A.
claims is linked to fraud,'' she said. She said the state was suspending
or closing claims matching suspicious patterns and was working with
local and federal authorities to expose and prosecute offenders.

``Perpetrators are often using stolen identity information from national
and global data breaches, as well as exploiting expedited payment
efforts,'' she said.

In August, 21 current and former inmates of the main San Mateo County
jail were
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/unemployment-fraud-jail-california.html}{charged
with fraud} after they successfully applied for benefits under the
program while in custody. The bogus claims yielded more than \$250,000
in payments to the prisoners.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nelson-d-schwartz}{Nelson D.
Schwartz}

\hypertarget{jpmorgan-chase-wants-its-top-executives-to-return-to-the-office-this-month}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{jpmorgan-chase-wants-its-top-executives-to-return-to-the-office-this-month}{JPMorgan
Chase wants its top executives to return to the office this
month.}}{JPMorgan Chase wants its top executives to return to the office this month.}}\label{jpmorgan-chase-wants-its-top-executives-to-return-to-the-office-this-month}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10Markets-brf-jpm-01/merlin_134270408_19b1bdb8-1184-420f-a1d1-1e75c8b859b0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{JPMorgan Chase} wants some of its senior executives to return to
the office.

The bank's heads of markets and sales asked their top managers to return
to offices in Midtown Manhattan and London starting Sept. 21, according
to two employees familiar with the matter.

The request applies to perhaps 600 senior managers, according to one of
the people, who was not authorized to speak publicly. But it's not clear
how many will actually come back right away: The bank, like other
institutions that are beginning to reopen, said it would make exceptions
for employees who faced health problems or child-care hurdles.

The request, which was
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/jpmorgan-top-brass-tell-trading-floor-staff-to-come-back-to-the-office-11599757313?mod=hp_lead_pos2}{reported
earlier} by The Wall Street Journal, was directed at the investment
bank's top echelons of management, but the hope is that other executives
will follow if the transition goes smoothly and virus infection rates in
New York remain low.
(\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/05/business/jamie-dimon-heart-surgery.html}{Jamie
Dimon,} JPMorgan's chief executive, has been working from the office for
the latter half of the summer, after recovering from heart surgery
earlier this year.)

Other large organizations, including \textbf{Goldman Sachs} and the
\textbf{National Football League}, have begun encouraging workers to
return to the office to varying degrees. But even for workers who long
for a return to the office, logistical hurdles abound, including erratic
school schedules. New York City's plan includes in-person sessions, but
some students might be on the classroom for one day in a given week.

\textbf{American Express} on Thursday said it was reopening its New York
and London offices at 10 percent capacity, but extended its deadline for
employees to return to the office to June 30, 2021.

Top Wall Street bosses have taken differing approaches.

David Solomon, Goldman Sachs's chief executive,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/business/goldman-sachs-david-solomon-coronavirus.html}{has
worked from the office nearly every day since March}, and encouraged
partners and other senior executives to return this summer. But
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/26/technology/ceo-coronavirus-booking-holdings-fogel.html}{James
Gorman}, the \textbf{Morgan Stanley} chief who has recovered from the
virus, has taken a more conservative stance. He did not return to the
office until early July and then only for part of the week. His fear,
say employees: His presence could place tacit pressure on workers to
return to the office before they are ready.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kate-kelly}{Kate Kelly}

\hypertarget{pelotons-revenue-surges-172-percent-as-workouts-move-from-gym-to-home}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{pelotons-revenue-surges-172-percent-as-workouts-move-from-gym-to-home}{Peloton's
revenue surges 172 percent as workouts move from gym to
home.}}{Peloton's revenue surges 172 percent as workouts move from gym to home.}}\label{pelotons-revenue-surges-172-percent-as-workouts-move-from-gym-to-home}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-peloton-01/merlin_171380874_9d8c8cd2-2e02-4bc3-adfd-fa233fdb61c7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The fitness company \textbf{Peloton} reported huge leaps in revenue and
profit in the three months ended June 30, with many gyms still closed
because of the coronavirus pandemic and people looking for ways to stay
in shape at home.

Peloton, which sells expensive exercise bicycles and treadmills, said
Thursday that it had \$607 million in revenue, a 172 percent increase
from the same time last year, outpacing industry expectations. The
company made \$89 million in profit, compared with a loss of \$47
million at the same time in 2019. Peloton also said it ended its fiscal
year with 3.1 million subscribers to its membership program, which has a
version that does not require a Peloton device, compared with 1.4
million members from a year ago.

Peloton was one of the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/12/style/coronavirus-fitness-gyms.html}{earliest
cultural phenomena} started by the pandemic, as fitness fanatics stuck
at home
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/06/technology/peloton-boom-workout-virus.html}{looked
for ways} to stay in shape, and were willing to shell out \$2,245 for an
exercise bike or \$4,295 for a treadmill. On Tuesday,
\href{https://www.cnn.com/2020/09/08/tech/peloton-new-products/index.html}{the
company announced} it would lower the price of its bike by \$350 and
also debut a new upscale bike for \$2,495. Next year, it will add a
cheaper version of its treadmill.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/kellen-browning}{Kellen
Browning}

\hypertarget{advertisement-1}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-1}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid2}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{century-21-files-for-bankruptcy-closing-all-stores}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{century-21-files-for-bankruptcy-closing-all-stores}{Century
21 files for bankruptcy, closing all
stores.}}{Century 21 files for bankruptcy, closing all stores.}}\label{century-21-files-for-bankruptcy-closing-all-stores}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-century21/merlin_170599956_ac895ec3-c063-4e0f-916f-418df05f7f09-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{Century 21}, the famous New York discount store chain, said
Thursday that it had been forced to file for bankruptcy and would close
all 13 of its locations after its insurance providers refused to pay
about \$175 million to the business.

The insurance money was for ``policies put in place to protect against
losses stemming from business interruption such as that experienced as a
direct result of the Covid-19 pandemic,'' Century 21
\href{https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/century-21-stores-to-commence-wind-down-of-retail-operations-301127393.html}{said
in a release.} The chain said that it would wind down its retail
operations and start store-closing sales on its website and in its
locations in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida.

Century 21, founded in downtown Manhattan in 1961 by two cousins, Sonny
and Al Gindi, quickly became known as a destination for designer goods
at bargain prices. It was a pioneer of the now-ubiquitous off-price
shopping model, which includes national chains like \textbf{Ross},
\textbf{T.J. Maxx} and \textbf{Marshalls}. Century 21 became a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/10/31/style/next-century-21-shopping.html}{New
York institution};~its website cites the designer Zac Posen saying that
the retailer represented his ``introduction to shopping for fashion,''
and the store was commonly referenced in pop culture, including in shows
like HBO's ``Sex and the City.''

Raymond Gindi, a co-chief executive and a son of a founder, said that
unlike the period after the Sept. 11 attacks, ``our insurers, to whom we
have paid significant premiums every year for protection against
unforeseen circumstances like we are experiencing today, have turned
their backs on us at this most critical time.''

He added: ``While retailers across the board have suffered greatly due
to Covid-19, and Century 21 is no exception, we are confident that had
we received any meaningful portion of the insurance proceeds, we would
have been able to save thousands of jobs and weather the storm, in hopes
of another incredible recovery.''

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sapna-maheshwari}{Sapna
Maheshwari}

\hypertarget{the-ranks-of-the-self-employed-on-jobless-benefits-have-been-surging}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-ranks-of-the-self-employed-on-jobless-benefits-have-been-surging}{The
ranks of the self-employed on jobless benefits have been
surging.}}{The ranks of the self-employed on jobless benefits have been surging.}}\label{the-ranks-of-the-self-employed-on-jobless-benefits-have-been-surging}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-pua/merlin_174443166_879febdd-ae93-4c9b-97b0-4972395281a0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Gig workers, freelancers and the self-employed have long been left to
their own devices when work runs out. The emergency aid package passed
by Congress in March supplied them with a safety net --- and a surge in
filings for the benefit is raising questions about whether such workers
are being left behind in the recovery.

From Aug. 8 to Aug. 22, the total of those collecting benefits under the
program, Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, rose to 14.6 million from
less than 11 million. The increase means workers on the federal program
exceeded those receiving regular state unemployment benefits.

``The story among gig workers and part-timers has become more grim in
recent weeks,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon
Macroeconomics.

The reason for the surge in claims from those outside the traditional
unemployment insurance system is uncertain, he said, but it is
consistent with private data showing an overall decline in
small-business employment. And for many caught in the maw of the
coronavirus economy, the program has been a lifeline.

Pedro Night, a D.J. in the Washington area, saw his livelihood fade as
events and other gatherings were halted. ``By April, it hit me, and I
realized that we were definitely in this for the long haul,'' he said.

He applied for the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program, and in
June, he started receiving \$350 each week in benefits after taxes, in
addition to a \$600 federal supplement.

Although the supplement ended in late July, the basic payments have
continued, giving him just enough for his share of the \$750 monthly
rent for an apartment in Rockville, Md., his \$400 car payment and his
\$120 car insurance bill.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/nelson-d-schwartz}{Nelson D.
Schwartz} and
\href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\hypertarget{furloughed-then-laid-off-and-now-giving-up-dreams-for-a-family}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{furloughed-then-laid-off-and-now-giving-up-dreams-for-a-family}{Furloughed,
then laid off, and now giving up dreams for a
family.}}{Furloughed, then laid off, and now giving up dreams for a family.}}\label{furloughed-then-laid-off-and-now-giving-up-dreams-for-a-family}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/11/business/10JPvirus-jobless1-print/10markets-brf-vegas2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Robert Rooney was furloughed from his job as an engineer at the
\textbf{Bellagio Hotel} in Las Vegas on March 15, and then permanently
laid off on Aug. 31. After the \$600 federal supplement to weekly
unemployment payments ran out, Mr. Rooney was left with \$423 a week in
Nevada unemployment benefits after taxes.

Mr. Rooney's wife, Jennifer, is still working, but they believe they
will be unable to pay the \$1,200 rent for their two-bedroom house by
the end of the year. They are considering selling one of their cars and
have given up on buying a home, something they expected to do this fall.

They are using credit cards to pay for groceries, gas and the roughly
\$300 per month in medical costs for Mr. Rooney's mother, who has a lung
ailment. They are dipping into their small pot of savings --- once
reserved for the down payment on a house --- for the minimum payments on
their credit card bills.

Ms. Rooney was able to hang on to the entry-level job she got last year
doing data entry at a local nonprofit organization. Her wages, at \$12
per hour, are close to what she made 10 years ago, before earning her
bachelor's degree. She took the job with a pay cut, hoping to work her
way up as she changed industries from her prior work in health care. But
her paychecks alone are too scanty to keep the family afloat.

The couple, both 41, have had fertility challenges, and before the
pandemic, they were looking into fertility treatments or adoption. Now,
without Mr. Rooney's job and with his company health insurance running
out at the end of the month, they can't afford either possibility.

``It's really painful to think about what might have been,'' he said.
``The pandemic has taken all of that away.''

The Rooneys are planning to move to Texas by November to take advantage
of lower housing costs and in hopes that he will have more luck finding
work there.

--- \href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\hypertarget{advertisement-2}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-2}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid3}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{punished-by-the-pandemic-a-gig-worker-waits-for-the-repo-man}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{punished-by-the-pandemic-a-gig-worker-waits-for-the-repo-man}{`Punished
by the pandemic': A gig worker waits for the repo
man.}}{`Punished by the pandemic': A gig worker waits for the repo man.}}\label{punished-by-the-pandemic-a-gig-worker-waits-for-the-repo-man}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-gigwork/10markets-brf-gigwork-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For 10 years, Joe Braxton helped brands market themselves at events like
\textbf{South by Southwest} and \textbf{Comic-Con}. But then the
pandemic struck, events across the country were canceled, and Mr.
Braxton found himself out of work.

Thanks to a job early in the year at an auto show, he qualified for
unemployment benefits, including the \$600 weekly federal supplement to
unemployment insurance. That allowed him to keep paying the \$1,200 in
rent for his one-bedroom apartment in Bladensburg, Md.

But when the supplement ended in late July, he was left with just \$100
per week in state benefits. With no other income, he could not afford
his rent. His landlord allowed him to pay less than the full amount each
month until he could find work. But car payments were a different
matter.

Mr. Braxton, 40, has not been able to pay for his car loan or auto
insurance --- which together total \$860 a month --- and now he owes
\$2,700. In August, he was told that unless he paid \$1,800 by the end
of the month, his car would be repossessed. He was not able to do so,
and now he waits for his car to be hauled away.

Mr. Braxton worries that without a car, he will have even more trouble
finding work.

``Every day I wake up and I'm like, did they come pick it up yet?'' he
said. ``I feel like I'm being punished by the pandemic, and it's not
even my fault.''

--- \href{http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/gillian-friedman}{Gillian
Friedman}

\hypertarget{lvmh-makes-new-claims-in-its-case-to-get-out-of-buying-tiffany}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{lvmh-makes-new-claims-in-its-case-to-get-out-of-buying-tiffany}{LVMH
makes new claims in its case to get out of buying
Tiffany.}}{LVMH makes new claims in its case to get out of buying Tiffany.}}\label{lvmh-makes-new-claims-in-its-case-to-get-out-of-buying-tiffany}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-lvmhtiffany/merlin_165067029_b8a85c8a-acaf-4d07-811e-b6068704997d-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The French luxury conglomerate \textbf{LVMH} moved on Thursday to
bolster its argument for canceling its
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/business/lvmh-tiffany-deal-lawsuit.html}{\$16.2
billion takeover
of}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/business/lvmh-tiffany-deal-lawsuit.html}{Tiffany}},
arguing that the upscale jewelry chain violated the terms of their deal
by mismanaging itself during the pandemic,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/10/business/dealbook/lvmh-tiffany-deal.html}{today's
DealBook newsletter reports}.

The move is meant to counter a lawsuit by Tiffany in Delaware compelling
LVMH --- home to Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior, Fendi and more --- to
complete the deal, which would be the luxury industry's largest ever.
The transaction, struck nine months ago, has become
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/business/lvmh-tiffany-deal-lawsuit.html}{the
subject of high drama and international intrigue}, after LVMH claimed it
was asked to delay completing the acquisition by the French government.

\href{https://www.lvmh.com/news-documents/press-releases/lvmh-intends-to-file-a-lawsuit-against-tiffany-as-a-result-of-crisis-mismanagement/}{In
a statement on Thursday}, LVMH said that Tiffany violated contractual
requirements to follow an ordinary course of business, including by
paying out dividends to shareholders while it lost money during the
pandemic. That lays the groundwork for a lawsuit by LVMH claiming the
right to walk away from the deal, which is expected within days.

LVMH also plans to file for E.U. regulatory approval, which the
conglomerate says undermines one of Tiffany's main legal arguments: that
it is intentionally slow-walking obtaining approval for the deal.
Tiffany has argued for months that LVMH has dragged out the regulatory
process as it sought to renegotiate a lower price for the transaction.
It also plans to ask the Delaware court for LVMH to pay damages of about
\$2.5 million a day since July, when, the jeweler contends, the deal
should have closed.

Left out of Thursday's statement is any more clarity on a letter sent to
LVMH by the French foreign ministry on Aug. 31, which asked the
conglomerate not to close the Tiffany deal until January --- well after
the transaction's late November deadline --- as part of France's effort
to ``dissuade the American authorities'' from imposing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/10/business/us-will-impose-tariffs-on-french-goods-in-response-to-tech-tax.html}{threatened
tariffs on luxury French goods}.

LVMH argued that it could not proceed with the deal if it was ordered to
pull back by government officials. LVMH's chief financial officer, Jean
Jacques Guiony, denied accusations that the company
\href{https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-09-09/lvmh-s-arnault-leaned-on-french-government-to-exit-tiffany-deal}{had
sought help} from the French government to get out of the deal, telling
reporters yesterday: ``You must be joking. Are you seriously suggesting
that we procured the letter? I don't even want to answer that
question.'' He later said that the letter had arrived unsolicited.

---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/michael-j-de-la-merced}{Michael
J. de la Merced} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lauren-hirsch}{Lauren
Hirsch}

\hypertarget{british-airways-joins-other-european-carriers-planning-fewer-flights-as-quarantine-rules-cut-demand}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{british-airways-joins-other-european-carriers-planning-fewer-flights-as-quarantine-rules-cut-demand}{British
Airways joins other European carriers planning fewer flights as
quarantine rules cut
demand.}}{British Airways joins other European carriers planning fewer flights as quarantine rules cut demand.}}\label{british-airways-joins-other-european-carriers-planning-fewer-flights-as-quarantine-rules-cut-demand}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/10/business/10markets-brf-iag/merlin_175411473_d915f48b-5536-4f5f-a131-49ff2fd07ad3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Some of Europe's largest airlines have announced new cuts to their
flying schedules.

After nearly all their planes were grounded in the early days of the
pandemic, the airlines tentatively rebuilt their services in the summer
as travel restrictions loosened in Europe to allow for vacations. But
passenger demand has now fallen again in response to changing quarantine
restrictions, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/europe/coronavirus-second-wave.html}{coronavirus
cases}rise in Britain and continental Europe.

\textbf{IAG}, the parent company of \textbf{British Airways} and
\textbf{Iberia},
\href{https://www.iairgroup.com/~/media/Files/I/IAG/press-releases/english/2020/Fully\%20Underwritten\%20Capital\%20Increase\%20to\%20Raise\%20Gross\%20Proceeds\%20of\%202741\%20million.pdf}{said
on Thursday} that it had seen ``an overall leveling off of bookings''
since July and expected to fly even less for the rest of this year and
next year than it had previously forecast.

On Tuesday, \textbf{easyJet} said it
would\href{https://www.londonstockexchange.com/news-article/EZJ/capacity-update/14678136}{cut
flights} because ``the constantly evolving government restrictions
across Europe and quarantine measures in the U.K.'' had eroded the
confidence of customers to make travel plans. On Wednesday,
\textbf{Ryanair} cut its target for passenger numbers by
\href{https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-ryanair/ryanair-steels-for-winter-write-off-as-travel-gloom-deepens-idUSKBN2601RA}{another
10 million} for the fiscal year to March.

In Britain, airlines and airports have urged the government to adopt
in-airport testing as a way to limit two-week quarantines for passengers
returning from overseas. The list of countries exempt from quarantine
rules keeps changing, and this week travelers returning from seven Greek
islands were told they would need to quarantine. The government has
\href{https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-54031912}{responded} that it doesn't
believe testing in airports will be effective at catching most positive
cases, especially people recently infected on their journeys.

The latest reductions in flights signal how far away the airline
industry is from recovering from the pandemic. IAG said it doesn't
expect passenger demand to return to 2019 levels until 2023 at the
earliest. The airline group published details of its plan to raise 2.7
billion euros (\$3.2 billion) by selling new shares to existing
shareholders as a new chief executive took over this week.

--- \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/eshe-nelson}{Eshe
Nelson}

\hypertarget{advertisement-3}{%
\subsubsection{Advertisement}\label{advertisement-3}}

\protect\hyperlink{after-dfp-ad-mid4}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-latest-bp-enters-11-billion-offshore-wind-deal-with-equinor}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{the-latest-bp-enters-1-1-billion-offshore-wind-deal-with-equinor}{The
latest: BP enters \$1.1 billion offshore wind deal with
Equinor.}}{The latest: BP enters \$1.1 billion offshore wind deal with Equinor.}}\label{the-latest-bp-enters-11-billion-offshore-wind-deal-with-equinor}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{BP}
  \href{https://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/news-and-insights/press-releases/bp-and-equinor-form-strategic-partnership-to-develop-offshore-wind-energy-in-us.html}{said}
  Thursday that it would pay \$1.1 billion to \textbf{Equinor} for 50
  percent stakes in leases for offshore wind sites that the Norwegian
  company holds off the coast of Long Island and New England. BP said
  that the areas have the potential to generate power for more than 2
  million homes once developed. The London-based company is expected to
  outline further details of a push into low carbon energy next week.
\item
  \textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/jc-penney-avoids-liquidation-in-a-sale-to-two-mall-operators}{J.C.
  Penney}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus/jc-penney-avoids-liquidation-in-a-sale-to-two-mall-operators}{reached
  an agreement} on Wednesday to sell its retail business to the mall
  operators \textbf{Simon Property Group} and \textbf{Brookfield
  Property Partners}, averting a liquidation that would have represented
  a significant failure in the retail industry. Simon and Brookfield
  will pay about \$300 million in cash and assume \$500 million in debt
  to buy J.C. Penney, lawyers for J.C. Penney said at a bankruptcy court
  hearing on Wednesday. A certain portion of the company's stores and
  distribution centers will become two separate property companies,
  according to the hearing. In all, the deal values J.C. Penney at
  \$1.75 billion, including the funds committed to support its business
  after it emerges from bankruptcy.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
