<div id="app">

<div id="standalone-header">

<div class="interactive-masthead NYTAppHideMasthead css-xuu3c2 e1suatyy0">

<div class="section css-133zg39 e1suatyy2">

<div class="css-eph4ug er09x8g0">

<div class="css-6n7j50">

</div>

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">Sections</span>

<div class="css-10488qs">

<span class="css-1dv1kvn">SEARCH</span>

</div>

[Skip to content](#site-content)[Skip to site index](#site-index)

</div>

<div class="css-10698na e1huz5gh0">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-11kjks6" role="region" data-aria-label="comments panel" tabindex="-1">

<div class="css-1h21wu5">

<div class="css-akb3vb">

<div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

## [Comments](#commentsContainer)

[Padma Lakshmi Wants Us to Eat More Adventurously]()[Skip to Comments]()

<div class="css-c32q7m">

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to <letters@nytimes.com>.

</div>

</div>

<div class="css-1bxnhxc">

</div>

<div class="css-1yip8nf">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="site-content" role="main">

Talk

# Padma Lakshmi Wants Us to Eat More Adventurously

<div class="css-1vegfwe interactive-byline-container">

By <span class="css-1baulvz last-byline" itemprop="name">David
Marchese</span>Aug. 3, 2020

</div>

<div id="interactive-standalone-sharetools" class="css-wkcogx">

<div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

  - *<span class="css-1dtr3u3">157</span>*

</div>

</div>

</div>

“There’s such a laziness about reaching for the thing that is most
familiar.”

<div id="padma-lakshmi-interview" class="section css-l08pwh interactive-minimal interactive-content interactive-size-medium">

<div class="css-17ih8de interactive-body">

<div class="rad-tooltip">

<div class="rad-tooltip-content">

</div>

![Close
X](https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/07/09/talk/a28b9c874788a9e2b60f2798087577317201a315/close.svg)

</div>

<div class="rad-article" data-slug="09mag-talk-lakshmi">

<div class="rad-cover headline-image-topper">

<div class="rad-cover-main">

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

<div class="rad-head-wrap">

<div class="rad-kicker-wrapper">

**Talk** Aug. 3, 2020

</div>

# Padma Lakshmi Wants Us to Eat More Adventurously

<div class="rad-byline-wrap">

<span class="g-byline-name" itemprop="name">By David Marchese</span>

<div class="rad-date-share">

</div>

<span>SHARE</span>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="rad-story-body">

If you’re only familiar with Padma Lakshmi through her work as a host
and judge on Bravo’s long-running cooking competition “Top Chef,” then
the 49-year-old’s new show might seem like a detour. Part food
travelogue, part exploration of the benefits and blind spots of
multiculturalism, Hulu’s “Taste the Nation” finds Lakshmi cracking crab
shells with South Carolina’s Gullah Geechee community, partaking of
brats and beer at Oktoberfest in Milwaukee and comparing flour and corn
tortillas along the border in El Paso. It’s a long way from the glamour
of “Top Chef,” but as Lakshmi tells it, the show is the culmination of
her aim to “demystify foods that are part of our culture but get othered
by the greater American culture.” Pursuing that aim has been the hidden
throughline connecting her three cookbooks, her pre-“Top Chef” TV
appearances on the Food Network and even her well-regarded 2016 memoirs,
“Love, Loss, and What We Ate.” It is, she says, “something I’ve been
thinking about for a long time.”

**An idea that’s implicit in “Taste the Nation” is that the more we know
about the cultural history of our food, the more that leads to cultural
openness. What makes you believe that this idea is more than just a
platitude?** Listen, I’m under no illusions. I’m not one of these
kumbaya people. But I think the willingness to break bread with someone
shows a crack of openness. I believe in that quote, [“Tell me what you
eat, and I will tell you who you are.”](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-1)
Through food, you can tell a lot about not only a person or a family but
also a community. You can trace history through foods. You can trace
colonization. Food can be a great instrument, and that is how I try to
use it.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**The new show is really about diversity. “Top Chef” hasn’t necessarily
had the greatest** **[track record in that
area.](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-2)** **Could the show be doing more?**
Everybody should be doing more. I think that we have gotten better. I
think we have a long way to go. As a producer, I have power now that I
didn’t have when I started on “Top Chef.” I think we’ve done well in the
last few years, but there has to be a revolution from the ground up.
What I mean by that is: Why don’t we teach African-American cuisine in
our cooking schools in this country? Why does it always have to be
French-centric? Why isn’t it a requirement in culinary school to
understand the Native foods of North America? And these chefs who have
power now, usually white male chefs, they’re often mentoring people whom
it’s easy for them to mentor. I would love to see those chefs go into
urban environments and high schools or colleges and search for people to
mentor who aren’t necessarily already in their universe, so that when
people want to come on “Top Chef” they’re trained properly and can
compete on equal footing.

**There has been a ton of discussion and controversy lately about race
and cultural appropriation in food media. Did you have much sense of the
dynamics going on at** **[a place like Bon
Appétit?](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-3)** **Or in food media more
generally?** I didn’t know to what degree they went on at Bon Appétit. I
certainly didn’t know about the pay discrepancy. I don’t know Adam
Rapoport socially beyond food-world things. That picture of him and his
wife dressed up is the least of the issue, in my opinion. I think Adam
Rapoport is a symptom of something much bigger and more insidious, which
is that there is unconscious racism and subconscious racism and bias and
favoritism because we are attracted to people like us. Look at the
people who get things greenlit. For the most part, they’re white. That’s
what it feels like. When I walk around New York City or El Paso or Las
Vegas, I see a whole bunch of different kinds of people. There’s such a
laziness — it’s not often malicious — about reaching for the thing that
is most familiar. But it’s not only ethical to be more inclusive; it’s
good for business.

**You’ve said elsewhere recently that over the years you’ve had trouble
getting attention and coverage from certain outlets and publications.
Can you tell me more about that?** Listen, I pitched “Taste the Nation”
to several networks. I flew to Los Angeles on my own dime two or three
times, and everybody said no. When my agent told me that Hulu called and
said they’d love to talk, I said: “I’m not flying to L.A. again. I’m
done.” I hated coming home after being away from my kid, and she’s
saying, “Mommy, did you sell it?” and I have to look at this 9-year-old
and say, “No, I didn’t.” One entity — I won’t name names, but he’s no
longer at the network — even wrote me a long email about *why* he said
no. I guess he was trying to be respectful, but I don’t need a 900-word
email about how my show idea is derivative. Especially when there’s
nothing that I can see on TV like it. I’ve heard an Italian expression,
*“È come essere schiaffeggiato nel buio,”* which means “It’s like being
slapped in the dark.” You don’t know where it’s coming from, and you
don’t know why it’s happening to you. I have experienced this in a
million ways. You have to remember, I’ve been on prime-time television
for 14 years. I have a show that airs in countries all over the world. I
was well known before “Top Chef.” My show has been nominated for an Emmy
[every single year that I’ve been doing
it.](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-4) And yet all these networks that claim
they want diversity — and here was “Taste the Nation,” a show about the
diversity of our country, and they said no. I started to think, Maybe
I’m the only one interested in this stuff. It’s the same thing when I
see other, white women being published constantly, and their books
selling, and I know that their recipe is a watered-down version of an
Indian recipe or a Moroccan recipe.

**Is that a reference to** **[Alison Roman’s
stew?](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-5)** **** I’m not going to comment on
anybody specific, because I don’t think that’s productive.

**Without commenting on individuals, what did** **[the
blow-up](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-6)** **with her and Chrissy Teigen
and Marie Kondo signify to you?** I think she, like all of us sometimes,
suffered from a bad case of foot-in-mouth disease. It’s unfortunate. I
think all three of those women probably want the story to go away.
That’s all I will say about it.

![](data:image/gif;base64,R0lGODlhAQABAIAAAAAAAP///yH5BAEAAAAALAAAAAABAAEAAAIBRAA7)

**Has your thinking about cultural appropriation and food changed? There
was a profile of you in New York magazine last year, and** **[in it you
said — I’m paraphrasing —](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-7)** **that if
cultural appropriation gets more people open to more flavors, then
you’re OK with it. Do you still feel that way?** Look, I’m not saying
that you can’t use turmeric on a menu or in a cookbook unless you do a
doctoral dissertation on ayurvedic medicine. I’m just saying that a
couple of sentences at the top of a recipe would place it in context. I
love the commingling of cultures. My cookbooks are not all Indian,
because I don’t eat like that. I don’t experience life like that, and I
don’t think most Americans do, either. So I’m not saying that Indian
food should only be cooked by Indians. But it would be great if a recipe
that went viral were placed in the context of its own history. It’s not
taking anything away from creativity to do that. It is acknowledging
that these things didn’t come out of a vacuum.

<div class="g-ad rad-ad-wrapper">

<div id="mid9" class="place-ad" data-position="mid">

</div>

</div>

**Aside from that, what might a more culturally equitable food world
look like to you?** I would like to see the food section of papers like
The New York Times not be so white. I would like to see Condé Nast have
more editors who are not white. That’s a real, concrete ask that I’m
making. You have to make sure you’re hiring writers who have a different
perspective than the rest of your staff, because that’s good for your
newspaper or magazine. I would like them to consider balancing whom they
interview, even bending over backward a little bit, to even out our
presence.

**“Top Chef” excepted, the** **[other food-related
shows](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-8)** **you’ve done have been weighted
toward non-European food. Does that suggest biases about what television
executives are comfortable with you doing? Would it give them pause if
you pitched a show about French cuisine?** I don’t think so, because I
have 14 years on “Top Chef.” But I am a brown woman working in a white,
male Hollywood. It is very hard for us to get a show to begin with,
never mind the subject matter. But it’s a good question. If you’re
talking about my situation, I would never pitch a show like what you
described. I already have a successful show. I’m very thankful for it.
[It has provided my daughter](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-9) and me with
a great lifestyle. If I’m going to take time out of my life, it’s got to
be something that I feel is worthwhile. And “Taste the Nation” is what I
feel is most worthwhile. A lot of immigrants, we live in this weird
in-between land; there is a lot of code-switching that goes on when you
walk into your family home and then when you go to school. We have to
navigate that. So on “Taste the Nation” I want to show a Thai
grandmother making her dish so that [the Thai immigrant version of
me](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-10) who’s in elementary school now can
see her and say: “Oh, OK. My grandma is not that weird, because this
other grandma was on Hulu.” I know that sounds like a little thing, but
it’s not.

**What you’re talking about is a kind of acceptance, which connects to
something you wrote about in your memoirs: You had a hard time during
your modeling career reconciling your intellectual interests with the
work you were doing, and that struggle turned into low self-esteem or
even self-loathing. Was it hard to manage those feelings in a productive
way?** I didn’t start modeling until I was 21, which helped
psychologically, but I had to disassociate what I did for a living from
my sense of self. I was able to do that because [I would
write.](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-11) That was my outlet. I also had to
remind myself constantly that modeling wasn’t personal, that it had to
do with the color of your skin or that they just wanted a blond girl or
a flat-chested girl. It takes time to develop who you are as a person,
and I spent a lot of years trying to be as girl-next-door as I could, as
salable, commercial, whatever the job market told me I needed to be in
order to succeed. And in the end, when I finally got success, it was
because I just did whatever the hell I wanted.

**Did you have to make certain market concessions in order to get your
first cookbook published? It’s hard to imagine your using a title like
“Easy Exotic” and using similarly sultry photos in a cookbook today.**
Of course. I wouldn’t have gotten that contract if I wasn’t a model. It
was because I was a really good cook who also happened to be a model. It
was also not my lifelong dream to be a lingerie model, but guess what?
That is how I paid off my college loans before any of my classmates. We
all do what we have to do to get by. I love the pictures in “Easy
Exotic,” but that’s the thing, we put people in these boxes: I have to
be a pretty model who doesn’t eat or I have to be an intellectual person
who’s not wearing certain clothes or I have to be a cookbook author and
be very Martha Stewart. Well, I’m not. There are different sides to me,
and I think today people are accepting of dimensionality in a person.
I’m a complicated person, like most human beings.

**This last question doesn’t have to do with food: You’ve had a lot of**
**[traumatic events](http://nytimes.com#tooltip-12)** **in your life,
and it seems as if it would be easy for somebody who’s had those
experiences to end up cynical or pessimistic. You’re not. How did you
avoid that?** Yes, a lot of \[expletive\] has gone down. I do have a bit
of “the sky is falling”; people who are close to me would say, “She’s
always worst-case scenario.” But I remember something my grandfather
said to me. He said, “Whenever you go to sleep, I want you to feel like
you did something good today.” You have control over what you
accomplish. You don’t always have control over what happens to you, but
you have control over how you react. In spite of everything that
happened to me, look where I am today.

-----

*This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two
conversations.*

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

<div class="rad-article-credits">

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div id="standalone-footer">

<div>

<div>

<div id="interactive-footer-wrapper">

<div class="css-i29ckm">

<div class="css-1oeie6n">

Read 157 Comments

</div>

<div class="interactive-sharetools css-9z2bwm" role="toolbar" data-aria-label="Social Media Share buttons, Save button, and Comments Panel with current comment count" data-testid="share-tools">

  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
    
    <div class="css-6n7j50">
    
    </div>

</div>

</div>

<div>

</div>

<div id="bottom-wrapper" class="css-1ede5it">

<div id="bottom-slug" class="css-l9onyx">

Advertisement

</div>

[Continue reading the main story](#after-bottom)

<div id="bottom" class="ad bottom-wrapper" style="text-align:center;height:100%;display:block;min-height:90px">

</div>

<div id="after-bottom">

</div>

</div>

## Site Index

<div>

</div>

## Site Information Navigation

  - [© <span>2020</span> <span>The New York Times
    Company</span>](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)

<!-- end list -->

  - [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  - [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  - [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  - [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
