 **NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier. Please
upgrade your browser.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/site/ie9-support.html}{LEARN
MORE Â»}

**Sections

**Home

**Search

\hypertarget{the-new-york-times}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/}{The
New York Times}}{The New York Times}}\label{the-new-york-times}}

 \href{/news-event/2020-election}{Elections} \textbar{}How Donald Trump
Uses the Tax Code in Ways You Can't

Log In

**0

**Settings

**Close search

\hypertarget{site-search-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Search Navigation}\label{site-search-navigation}}

Search NYTimes.com

**Clear this text input

Go

\url{https://nyti.ms/2dKruIJ}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\item
  Loading...
\end{enumerate}

See next articles

See previous articles

\hypertarget{site-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Navigation}\label{site-navigation}}

\hypertarget{site-mobile-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Mobile Navigation}\label{site-mobile-navigation}}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{-elections-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{ \href{/news-event/2020-election}{Elections}
}{ Elections }}\label{-elections-}}

\hypertarget{how-donald-trump-uses-the-tax-code-in-ways-you-cant}{%
\section{How Donald Trump Uses the Tax Code in Ways You
Can't}\label{how-donald-trump-uses-the-tax-code-in-ways-you-cant}}

The New York Times reported last week that Donald J. Trump had a
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/02/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html}{\$916
million net operating loss} on his 1995 tax returns, which could have
legally allowed him to avoid federal income taxes for nearly two
decades. That figure may seem startling, but wealthy real estate
developers like Mr. Trump enjoy federal income tax breaks largely
unavailable to typical homeowners.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/02/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html}{Related
Article}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_purchase.svg}

Advantage 1: Borrowing to Buy

**** When Mr. Trump purchases an expensive piece of real estate --- say,
a New Jersey casino, a Las Vegas hotel or a historic skyscraper in the
financial district of Manhattan --- \textbf{he often uses little of his
own money}, and the interest he pays on the loans is tax deductible.

Through the mid-1990s, Mr. Trump often borrowed heavily from banks and
other investors. In the case of the Trump Taj Mahal casino in Atlantic
City, his company issued
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/06/12/nyregion/donald-trump-atlantic-city.html}{\$675
million in high-interest junk bonds} to acquire the property and finish
construction.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_ownership.svg}

Advantage 2: Legal Ownership Structures

Real estate investors like Mr. Trump generally control properties
through
\href{https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/partnerships}{limited
partnerships} or similar ownership structures. This allows the profits
and losses to be treated as individual income, while shielding Mr. Trump
from lawsuits and from personal liability for the corporation's debt.

It also means that business losses can be used to offset other personal
income from taxation.
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/06/12/nyregion/donald-trump-atlantic-city.html}{When
his Atlantic City casinos began to fail in the early 1990s}, \textbf{Mr.
Trump could have deducted the full value of his businesses' losses
against his income, even though most of the money invested in them had
been borrowed.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_depreciation.svg}

Advantage 3: Deducting Wear and Tear

As soon as one of his properties opens, \textbf{Mr. Trump can deduct a
set percentage of its value each year} in a process called
\href{https://www.irs.gov/publications/p946/index.html}{depreciation}.

In the case of a billion-dollar casino, that could be more than
\textbf{\$25 million per year in deductions}, until the entire purchase
value has been recovered around 40 years later, according to Bradley T.
Borden, a professor at Brooklyn Law School who specializes in real
estate taxation.

Mr. Trump can also use
\href{https://www.irs.gov/businesses/cost-segregation-audit-techniques-guide-chapter-1-introduction}{cost
segregation} to separate the value of the building's components --- such
as the gilded bathroom fixtures and marbled interiors --- from the value
of the building, and depreciate them on an even more aggressive
timetable.

Mr. Trump is allowed to take full advantage of these deductions to
offset any of his personal income because he qualifies as a
\href{https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/passive-activity-loss-atg-exhibit-2-4-real-estate-professionals}{real
estate professional}, someone who spends at least 750 hours a year and
more than 50 percent of his time working in real estate.

\textbf{Most homeowners are not allowed to deduct the depreciation} of
their home.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_loss.svg}

Advantage 4: Net Operating Losses

The real estate industry stands apart in the sheer scale of the amount
of borrowed money it can take to make a deal, which increases the size
of the potential losses for a developer like Mr. Trump. Exceptionally
big losses can be used to avoid taxation for years. If Mr. Trump's
business losses, combined with his other deductions, exceed his income,
he produces what is known as a
\textbf{\href{https://www.irs.gov/publications/p536/ar02.html}{net
operating loss}}.

This type of loss, the same as a \$916 million loss that Mr. Trump
reported in 1995, is useful because it can be \textbf{carried forward
for the next 20 years (before 1997, it was 15 years) and used to avoid
paying income tax on his future income} --- like the more than \$200
million he claimed to have earned by appearing on the NBC television
show ``The Apprentice.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_bankruptcy.svg}

Advantage 5: Chapter 11 Bankruptcy

Mr. Trump's businesses have
\href{http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/jun/21/hillary-clinton/yep-donald-trumps-companies-have-declared-bankrupt/}{filed
for Chapter
11}\href{http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/jun/21/hillary-clinton/yep-donald-trumps-companies-have-declared-bankrupt/}{bankruptcy}\href{http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/jun/21/hillary-clinton/yep-donald-trumps-companies-have-declared-bankrupt/}{several
times}. Unlike a
\href{https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/chapter-7-bankruptcy-liquidation-under-the-bankruptcy-code}{Chapter
7 bankruptcy}, which would liquidate a business, a
\href{https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/chapter-11-bankruptcy-reorganization}{Chapter
11} bankruptcy places its debts on hold while the business negotiates a
restructuring plan with its lenders.

Mr. Trump characterized the choice to repeatedly file for Chapter 11
bankruptcy as a smart business move, saying in an
\href{http://www.forbes.com/sites/clareoconnor/2011/04/29/fourth-times-a-charm-how-donald-trump-made-bankruptcy-work-for-him/}{interview
with Forbes}, ``Basically, I've used the laws of the country to my
advantage.''

During negotiations, Mr. Trump has used the threat of years in
bankruptcy court to \textbf{force his lenders to forgive some of his
debt, allow longer and more forgiving payment terms, and provide him
with additional loans to keep the properties afloat.}

Normally, \href{https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc431.html}{debt
forgiveness would be taxable income}. But there are several ways he
might be able to reduce or eliminate it. \textbf{Some real estate owners
can take advantage of a special provision to avoid paying this tax by
forgoing future depreciation deductions.}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_saleloss.svg}

Advantage 6: Time to Sell

For most investments, selling at a loss counts as a capital loss, which
can only be used on your taxes to offset capital gains and a small
amount of income.

But through a
\href{https://www.irs.gov/publications/p544/ch03.html}{provision in the
tax code}, \textbf{the sale of business real estate is counted as an
ordinary loss} instead. So if Mr. Trump had sold a casino at a large
loss, 100 percent of the loss could be used to offset his income taxes,
or added to his net operating loss to carry forward to future years.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2016/10/04/trump-taxes-loopholes/91c10620057276b2aa527fc6500b7fcc237e3e05/images/trump_sale.svg}

Advantage 7: Flipping Real Estate

**** Let's say that Mr. Trump sells at a gain. If he quickly reinvests
the proceeds from the sale into a new piece of real estate, it qualifies
as a
\href{https://www.irs.gov/uac/like-kind-exchanges-under-irc-code-section-1031}{like-kind
exchange}. \textbf{This would allow him to delay paying taxes} on the
gain until he sells the new property. If that sale is also a like-kind
exchange, Mr. Trump could continue to defer the taxes.

This can go on as long as Mr. Trump continues to do like-kind exchanges.
\textbf{If the proceeds continue to be reinvested in real estate until
Mr. Trump dies, all income taxes on the accumulated gains between the
depreciated value and the sale price will vanish.}

The Bottom Line

All of these tax advantages are legal options available to real estate
developers under the current federal tax code. The extent to which they
helped Mr. Trump build his fortune by contributing to the
\href{http://documentcloud.org/documents/3117920-Pages-From-Donald-Trump-s-1995-Income-Tax-Returns.html}{\$916
million net operating loss} shown in his 1995 records might never be
fully understood unless he chooses to release his tax returns.

\hypertarget{presidential-election-2016}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/election-2016}{Presidential
Election
2016}}{Presidential Election 2016}}\label{presidential-election-2016}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/02/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/02/us/01trumptaxes1/01trumptaxes1-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{donald-trump-tax-records-show-he-could-have-avoided-taxes-for-nearly-two-decades-the-times-found}{%
  \subsection{Donald Trump Tax Records Show He Could Have Avoided Taxes
  for Nearly Two Decades, The Times
  Found}\label{donald-trump-tax-records-show-he-could-have-avoided-taxes-for-nearly-two-decades-the-times-found}}

  July 15, 2020
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/03/insider/the-time-i-found-donald-trumps-tax-records-in-my-mailbox.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/03/insider/03-insider-trumptaxes/03-insider-trumptaxes-mediumThreeByTwo225-v3.jpg}

  \hypertarget{the-time-i-found-donald-trumps-tax-records-in-my-mailbox}{%
  \subsection{The Time I Found Donald Trump's Tax Records in My
  Mailbox}\label{the-time-i-found-donald-trumps-tax-records-in-my-mailbox}}

  Jan. 20, 2018
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/us/politics/100000004684657/donald-trumps-taxes.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/02/us/01trumptax-video2/01trumptax-video2-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{donald-trumps-taxes}{%
  \subsection{Donald Trump's Taxes}\label{donald-trumps-taxes}}

  Oct. 6, 2018
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/10/01/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/01/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes/donald-trump-taxes-mediumThreeByTwo225-v2.gif}

  \hypertarget{pages-from-donald-trumps-1995-income-tax-records}{%
  \subsection{Pages From Donald Trump's 1995 Income Tax
  Records}\label{pages-from-donald-trumps-1995-income-tax-records}}

  May 10, 2018
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2016/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes-explained.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/01/us/02TRUMPTAXES-listy/02TRUMPTAXES-listy-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{donald-trumps-taxes-what-we-know-and-dont-know}{%
  \subsection{Donald Trump's Taxes: What We Know and Don't
  Know}\label{donald-trumps-taxes-what-we-know-and-dont-know}}

  June 1, 2017
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/07/us/politics/donald-trump-taxes.html}{}

  \includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/10/07/us/07trumptaxes_web1/07tumptaxes_web1-mediumThreeByTwo225.jpg}

  \hypertarget{when-donald-trump-went-to-washington-and-got-himself-a-tax-break}{%
  \subsection{When Donald Trump Went to Washington and Got Himself a Tax
  Break}\label{when-donald-trump-went-to-washington-and-got-himself-a-tax-break}}

  Dec. 21, 2017
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©
  2020 The New York Times Company}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Home}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/search/}{Search}
\item
  Accessibility concerns? Email us at
  \href{mailto:accessibility@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{accessibility@NYTimes.com}}.
  We would love to hear from you.
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy\#pp}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014892108-Privacy-policy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation-1}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation-1}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us?redir=myacc}{Site
  Feedback}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
