Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}The Path of Stormy Daniels's
\$130,000 Payment to Keep Quiet

\url{https://nyti.ms/2HLH6vw}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Timeline

\hypertarget{the-path-of-stormy-danielss-130000-payment-to-keep-quiet}{%
\section{The Path of Stormy Daniels's \$130,000 Payment to Keep
Quiet}\label{the-path-of-stormy-danielss-130000-payment-to-keep-quiet}}

Here are the knowns, unknowns and contradictions of the not-so-secret
payment to the pornographic film actress.

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jim-rutenberg}{Jim
Rutenberg} and Jaclyn Peiser

\begin{itemize}
\item
  May 3, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/05/04/business/04COHEN/merlin_136947531_e6aa338f-a806-48ad-b3af-f9efca1ee330-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

It may prove to be the most-talked-about secret payment in American
political history --- the \$130,000 that President Trump's lawyer
Michael D. Cohen paid to the pornographic film actress Stephanie
Clifford to keep quiet about an alleged affair with Mr. Trump before he
became president.

That payment to Ms. Clifford, known professionally as Stormy Daniels,
was a mere 0.005 percent of the \$2.4 billion spent on the 2016
election. But it could have an outsize impact on the presidency: The
payment has helped spur a lawsuit by Ms. Clifford against Mr. Trump and
a federal investigation into Mr. Cohen. Campaign finance watchdogs
assert the transaction was the result of a secret, and illegal, effort
to subvert election spending laws on behalf of the president.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/03/us/politics/trump-cohen-giuliani.html?action=click\&module=Top\%20Stories\&pgtype=Homepage}{Mr.
Trump on Thursday rejected} any notion that payments to Ms. Clifford had
violated campaign finance laws, though in the course of his defense he
contradicted earlier statements that he hadn't known of payments to the
actress.

The story behind the payment to Ms. Clifford --- when Mr. Cohen paid it,
how he paid it, whether he was paid back and by whom --- will be
critical to both the lawsuit and investigation, not to mention others
that may come.

Below is what we know about what happened, how the explanations have
evolved and why it all matters.

\hypertarget{cohen-forms-a-shell-company-in-delaware}{%
\subsection{Cohen forms a shell company in
Delaware}\label{cohen-forms-a-shell-company-in-delaware}}

\textbf{Oct. 17, 2016}

Mr. Cohen sets up a new company in Delaware, Essential Consultants
L.L.C., from which he will later pay Ms. Clifford.

Delaware has minimal disclosure requirements for people who create
companies there, making it hard to know their identities.

Many companies incorporate in Delaware. The location of Essential
Consultants could become legally significant if investigators establish
that Mr. Cohen used Essential Consultants to evade campaign finance laws
requiring full disclosure of campaign donations and disbursements. Mr.
Cohen and lawyers for Mr. Trump have denied wrongdoing.

\hypertarget{money-is-moved-and-aliases-are-involved}{%
\subsection{Money is moved, and aliases are
involved}\label{money-is-moved-and-aliases-are-involved}}

\textbf{Oct. 26, 2016}

Mr. Cohen communicates with his bank, First Republic Bank, about a
payment to Ms. Clifford through his Trump Organization email account.
Ms. Clifford's lawyer Michael Avenatti
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/michael-cohen-used-trump-org-email-stormy-daniels-arrangements-n855021}{has
pointed to Mr. Cohen's use of that account} to argue he was working on
the payment in his official capacity working for the Trump Organization.
Mr. Cohen has said that ``neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump
campaign was a party to the transaction.''

\textbf{Oct. 27, 2016}

Keith Davidson, then Ms. Clifford's lawyer,
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-lawyers-payment-to-porn-star-was-reported-as-suspicious-by-bank-1520273701}{receives
a} \$130,000 wire transfer in his client-trust account at City National
Bank in Los Angeles.

\textbf{Oct. 28, 2016}

Mr. Cohen and Ms. Clifford sign a contract that effectively promises Ms.
Clifford money in exchange for not talking about the alleged affair with
Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump's name does not technically appear on the document.

According to a draft amendment to the original contract, which was
shared with The New York Times, Ms. Clifford was referred to as ``Peggy
Peterson.'' Mr. Trump was named as ``David Dennison'' in the document.

Mr. Avenatti now contends that in failing to sign the document himself,
Mr. Trump rendered the contract null and void.

\hypertarget{a-close-call-just-before-the-election}{%
\subsection{A close call just before the
election}\label{a-close-call-just-before-the-election}}

\textbf{Nov. 4, 2016}

\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/national-enquirer-shielded-donald-trump-from-playboy-models-affair-allegation-1478309380}{The
Wall Street Journal publishes an article} about a \$150,000 deal between
the tabloid company American Media and another woman alleging an affair
with Mr. Trump, the former Playboy model Karen McDougal, to keep silent
during the campaign. That article makes glancing mention of Ms.
Clifford, reporting that she was considering sharing her story with ABC
News but abruptly disappeared on the network before doing so.

The election is held four days later. The story about Ms. Clifford's
payment does not get any real attention for another 14 months.

\hypertarget{the-secret-deal-is-secret-no-more}{%
\subsection{The secret deal is secret no
more}\label{the-secret-deal-is-secret-no-more}}

\textbf{Jan. 12, 2018}

News reports reveal that Mr. Cohen
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-lawyer-arranged-130-000-payment-for-adult-film-stars-silence-1515787678}{arranged
the deal to pay} Ms. Clifford \$130,000 during the campaign and that a
contract amendment
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/12/us/trump-stephanie-clifford-stormy-daniels.html}{identifies
Ms. Clifford as Peggy Peterson} and Mr. Trump as David Dennison.

Mr. Cohen responds in a statement, ``These rumors have circulated time
and again since 2011. President Trump once again vehemently denies any
such occurrence as has Ms. Daniels,'' and forwards a denial from Ms.
Clifford. A White House official says, ``These are old, recycled
reports, which were published and strongly denied before the election.''

\textbf{Feb. 13, 2018}

Mr. Cohen
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/02/13/us/politics/stormy-daniels-michael-cohen-trump.html}{tells
The Times} that he paid the \$130,000 to Ms. Clifford out of his own
pocket, adding that neither the Trump Organization nor the Trump
campaign reimbursed him.

The implication: Mr. Cohen struck the deal with Ms. Clifford on his own
and without the knowledge of the president. The watchdog group Common
Cause alleges that Mr. Cohen's payment was in effect a campaign
contribution made to help protect Mr. Trump from negative news toward
the end of his campaign; individual donations to candidates were
\href{https://blogs.wsj.com/washwire/2015/02/02/fec-raises-contribution-caps-for-2016/}{limited
to \$5,400 per election} cycle in 2016.

\textbf{March 6, 2018}

Ms. Clifford
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/06/us/stormy-daniels-trump-lawsuit.html}{files
a lawsuit}, and reveals that Mr. Cohen took her to arbitration to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/07/us/politics/stormy-daniels-trump.html}{secure
a restraining order} to silence her, which her lawyer declares invalid
because Mr. Trump never signed the contract.

\textbf{March 7, 2018}

Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, says, ``There
was no knowledge of any payments from the president,'' adding, ``I've
had conversations with the president about this.'' She says, ``He has
denied all these allegations.''

\hypertarget{cohen-the-secret-payment-was-from-a-home-loan}{%
\subsection{Cohen: The secret payment was from a home
loan}\label{cohen-the-secret-payment-was-from-a-home-loan}}

\textbf{March 9, 2018}

Mr. Cohen provides
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/michael-cohen-dismisses-claims-email-proof-trump-knew/story?id=53642094}{a
detailed account} of the payment to Ms. Clifford, describing where the
money used for the payment came from. ``The funds were taken from my
home equity line and transferred internally to my L.L.C. account in the
same bank,'' he said.

Mr. Cohen repeats his statement that he was not reimbursed by either the
Trump Organization or the Trump campaign.

\hypertarget{trump-denies-knowing-about-the-payment-youll-have-to-ask-michael-cohen}{%
\subsection{Trump denies knowing about the payment: `You'll have to ask
Michael
Cohen'}\label{trump-denies-knowing-about-the-payment-youll-have-to-ask-michael-cohen}}

\textbf{April 5, 2018}

Reporters on Air Force One
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/05/us/politics/trump-stormy-daniels-hush-money.html}{ask
Mr. Trump} if he knew about the payment to Ms. Clifford. He responds,
flatly, ``No.'' Asked why Mr. Cohen made the payment, Mr. Trump says:
``You'll have to ask Michael Cohen. Michael is my attorney.'' He says he
does not know where the money for the payment came from.

\hypertarget{trump-reverses-his-stance}{%
\subsection{Trump reverses his stance}\label{trump-reverses-his-stance}}

\textbf{April 26, 2018}

Mr. Trump, in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/04/26/us/politics/trump-cohen-fox-friends.html}{an
interview on ``Fox \& Friends,''} acknowledges knowing that Mr. Cohen
represented him in dealing with Ms. Clifford. ``He represents me, like
with this crazy Stormy Daniels deal, he represented me,'' he said.

\textbf{May 2, 2018}

Mr. Trump's new lawyer, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York,
tells Sean Hannity of Fox News that the ``the president repaid it,''
referring to the payment Mr. Cohen made to Ms. Clifford. In fact, he
says, ``they set up a reimbursement, \$35,000 a month.''

Those payments,
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/giuliani-trump-repaid-lawyer-cohen-for-stormy-daniels-settlement/2018/05/02/526cde54-4e76-11e8-84a0-458a1aa9ac0a_story.html}{he
says later} in
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/03/us/politics/trump-cohen-giuliani.html}{interviews},
started in early 2017 and ultimately added up to as much as \$470,000,
which included ``incidental expenses.''

In a tweet the next morning,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/05/03/us/politics/trump-cohen-giuliani.html}{Mr.
Trump acknowledges paying Mr. Cohen} a monthly retainer. He reiterates
that the retainer had nothing to do with his campaign.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
