Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Kimberly Guilfoyle's
Fund-Raising for Trump Draws Scrutiny

\url{https://nyti.ms/30JSizl}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{kimberly-guilfoyles-fund-raising-for-trump-draws-scrutiny}{%
\section{Kimberly Guilfoyle's Fund-Raising for Trump Draws
Scrutiny}\label{kimberly-guilfoyles-fund-raising-for-trump-draws-scrutiny}}

Ms. Guilfoyle has raised money from donors and has made inroads with
some who have rejected calls from others. Yet Trump supporters inside
and outside the campaign say the operation she's built hasn't lived up
to expectations.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/24/us/politics/00-GUILFOYLE/merlin_174209379_d5bade2c-87ef-48ce-a2b0-a89745779509-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/02/20/multimedia/author-kenneth-p-vogel/author-kenneth-p-vogel-thumbLarge-v3.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/12/multimedia/author-maggie-haberman/author-maggie-haberman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maggie-haberman}{Maggie Haberman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 24, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- Kimberly Guilfoyle's popularity with major donors caught
the attention of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html}{President
Trump} last year, as she traveled the country appearing at fund-raisers
for his re-election campaign with her boyfriend, Donald Trump Jr.

Ms. Guilfoyle, a former Fox News host, had been hired by the campaign as
a senior adviser, but in December, the president personally asked her to
lead the fund-raising effort of Trump Victory, his campaign's main
committee for major donors.

She accepted, and was tasked with developing a network of mid-tier
supporters who are seen as pivotal to Mr. Trump's chances of winning a
second term, and with whom he never formed a deep bond in 2016.

Ms. Guilfoyle made inroads with some of the donors who had rejected
calls from others on Mr. Trump's team. Yet Trump supporters inside and
outside the campaign now say the operation she has built hasn't lived up
to the expectations of some Trump fund-raisers, and that her management
style and that of some of her aides have alienated others.

Some of the problems have been attributed to the inability to conduct
in-person fund-raising since the coronavirus pandemic began shutting
down Mr. Trump's donor events in March. Midlevel donors tend to give
more when they can see and speak with the president.

But in interviews with The New York Times, Ms. Guilfoyle's critics said
that she had devoted a disproportionate amount of attention to glitzier,
high-dollar fund-raising, and that they believed she used her position
--- and the fact that she's seen as a de facto member of the Trump
family --- to support her public image and lifestyle. Most of those
interviewed insisted on anonymity because they were not authorized to
discuss the issue publicly.

``I think she likes the spotlight a little too much,'' said Dan
Eberhart, an oil executive and a donor to Mr. Trump. He called Ms.
Guilfoyle a voluble supporter of the president, but said that when she
was previously working for the pro-Trump super PAC America First Action,
she often talked about her own media presence.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/24/us/politics/00-GUILFOYLE-2/merlin_156680610_abf00c8f-8d0c-4800-9dfb-0eed1425d41b-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

At least two staff members asked to be taken off her team, in part
because they disliked working with other members, according to people
familiar with the circumstances behind moves. And a lavish birthday
party for Ms. Guilfoyle at Mr. Trump's Palm Beach club in March was
partly funded by some campaign donors, which raised eyebrows.

More concerning to some donors and campaign aides has been private plane
use by Ms. Guilfoyle and her team, which has caught the eye of several
staff members. In January, as requests started coming in for private
flights, the campaign had to work out a plan for approving such trips,
which must be listed as in-kind contributions or reimbursed by the
campaign in order to comply with campaign finance laws.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-04T01:23:51.312Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-6494b448}{Trump
  assails mail-in voting anew, citing delays in declaring a winner in a
  New York congressional primary.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3de249e6}{Obama
  issues his first slate of 2020 endorsements.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-54e34d20}{In
  a big shift, Trump is now encouraging mask-wearing in campaign
  emails.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

Ms. Guilfoyle's private flights did not violate those laws, although in
one case, two of her aides, without seeking prior approval, took a
private flight to a fund-raising event in March. The campaign then had
to reimburse for the trip at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars,
according to two people familiar with the trip.

Tim Murtaugh, a campaign spokesman, said that flights categorized as
in-kind contributions to the campaign are funded by the donors directly.
Aides said such planes had allowed for maximum attendance by top
officials at multiple events per day. ``In any event,'' Mr. Murtaugh
said, ``the cost of flights and the efficiencies they provide are
investments in fund-raising events that raise millions of dollars for
the president's re-election.''

Through the campaign, Ms. Guilfoyle declined to be interviewed. The
Trump campaign provided statements praising Ms. Guilfoyle and the
campaign's fund-raising effort from the Republican National Committee's
chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel; Jeff Miller, a veteran Republican
fund-raiser; Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House
Republican leader; and two members of the finance team.

Ms. McDaniel called Ms. Guilfoyle one of Mr. Trump's ``strongest and
hardest-working advocates.''

The complaints about Ms. Guilfoyle's fund-raising numbers reflect some
of the harsh realities of Mr. Trump's re-election prospects,
particularly in the era of the coronavirus. A businessman who trusts
almost no one, Mr. Trump has often turned to a small circle of family
and friends for critical aspects of his re-election, regardless of their
previous experience. That is what happened with Ms. Guilfoyle, people
familiar with the situation said.

And his campaign's fund-raising, once seen as an overwhelming advantage,
has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/01/us/politics/trump-fundraising-2020.html}{lagged
in the last two months} behind that of his Democratic opponent, Joseph
R. Biden Jr.

The mid-tier donors that Ms. Guilfoyle has been tasked with developing
are seen by campaign insiders as a key to closing the fund-raising gap.
These donors give their own money, but also are dispatched to collect
--- or ``bundle'' --- potentially significant sums from their
associates.

Mr. Trump's untraditional 2016 campaign did not have an organized
program devoted to bundling, which requires endless rounds of phone
calls; it is usually left to lower-profile finance staff and
consultants, rather than big-name campaign surrogates with close ties to
the Oval Office like Ms. Guilfoyle, the ex-wife of Gov. Gavin Newsom of
California, a Democrat.

Ms. Guilfoyle left Fox News in 2018 and took a position at America First
Action. That year, she and the president's son revealed they were a
couple.

At fund-raising events, donors responded to her Fox News celebrity and
would line up to meet her, according to America First aides. But they
said Ms. Guilfoyle was mostly used as a surrogate and did not have any
staff reporting to her. They said she left the super PAC to maintain a
legally mandated firewall between it and the campaign, which often
deployed the younger Mr. Trump as a surrogate.

At the campaign, she initially served as a senior adviser when it was
run by Brad Parscale, before accepting the title of national chair of
the Trump Victory finance committee. Mr. Parscale has paid Ms. Guilfoyle
since she came to the campaign, routing the payments through his private
company.

Ms. Guilfoyle's defenders say that she is being targeted by junior staff
members on the campaign who don't like what they view as her blunt
style. They say she works nearly around the clock, sometimes making
calls past midnight to lock in donations.

``Kimberly has amazing energy and brought a lot of new people into the
campaign and made them feel empowered and important,'' said Jack Oliver,
a veteran Republican fund-raiser. ``Her relationship with the family
makes people understand that the president cares about the work the
volunteers are doing.''

Her defenders also say she has made the best of a tricky situation,
throwing herself into virtual donor cultivation, participating in
bundler conference calls and phone banks, and presiding over an increase
in activity by some donors and bundlers, despite having scaled-back
activity because of the coronavirus.

They insist her deputies, Caroline Wren, a veteran Republican
fund-raiser, and Sergio Gor, a former aide to Senator Rand Paul,
Republican of Kentucky, are effective.

Still, under Ms. Guilfoyle's stewardship, mid-tier donors have not
contributed as much as hoped by some Trump allies involved in
fund-raising for Trump Victory, which comprises Mr. Trump's campaign
committee and the R.N.C.

Bundling figures are fungible and, with the exception of the amounts
bundled by lobbyists, which are subject to mandatory disclosure to the
Federal Election Commission, there is no way to fact check them. The
people critical of Ms. Guilfoyle said the tallies attributed to her
initiatives are sometimes padded to make them appear more successful.
Sometimes bundlers are retroactively credited as having raised funds
that were not initially attributed to them, they said.

The campaign said that the funds credited to the bundling program were
tracked using identification numbers affiliated with individual
supporters.

The Trump campaign said it raised more than \$20 million this week from
a virtual fund-raiser organized by Ms. Guilfoyle. But according to
internal tallies, more than half of those funds came from small donors
who paid \$45 or more to participate, while \$6 million came from major
donors who were treated to a video chat with Mr. Trump that was
moderated by Ms. Guilfoyle.

That means less than \$4 million came from donors who gave in the
middle-tier of roughly \$2,800 each, the category Ms. Guilfoyle is
responsible for, despite the fact that donors in that range were offered
access to a separate program featuring appearances by top Republican
officials.

Overall, the campaign said that the bundler program accounted for \$73
million of the \$91 million raised by Trump Victory since the beginning
of this year, though there is no way to independently corroborate this
figure. And it said that since Ms. Guilfoyle took the helm of the
program in mid-January, it increased the ranks of bundlers from 1,000 to
6,500.

Image

President Donald Trump at his Mount Rushmore fireworks celebration on
July 3.Credit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times

After Ms. Guilfoyle
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/03/us/politics/kimberly-guilfoyle-trump-campaign-coronavirus.html}{tested
positive for the coronavirus} during a trip to Mount Rushmore for an
official White House event celebrating the Fourth of July, people close
to her said that she and Donald Trump Jr. would drive back to the East
Coast.

But they flew aboard a private flight instead, leaving behind Trump
Victory aides to Ms. Guilfoyle, who were told to self-quarantine in
their hotel for several days, according to a
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/07/23/kimberly-guilfoyle-trump-fundraising-380380}{Politico
report on Thursday}.

A campaign aide said that it was not Ms. Guilfoyle, but other campaign
officials, who had instructed the staff to remain in South Dakota, and
that the change in her plans came because it was deemed less of a
security risk than driving across the country with Mr. Trump's son, who
requires Secret Service protection.

Annie Karni contributed reporting from Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump again assails mail-in voting,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/us/politics/trump-mail-in-voting.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{claiming
    without evidence that the process is plagued by fraud}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
