Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/sports/football}{Pro
Football}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/sports/football}{Pro Football}\textbar{}Antonio Brown
Suspended Eight Games by the N.F.L.

\url{https://nyti.ms/30e6iSW}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{antonio-brown-suspended-eight-games-by-the-nfl}{%
\section{Antonio Brown Suspended Eight Games by the
N.F.L.}\label{antonio-brown-suspended-eight-games-by-the-nfl}}

The All-Pro receiver was penalized for his role in a January dispute at
his home and for sending threatening texts to a woman who had accused
him of sexual misconduct.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/01/sports/31brown-suspension-print/merlin_172890783_97953c39-f485-4d1c-8ccf-7f92169815a0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/02/16/multimedia/author-ken-belson/author-ken-belson-thumbLarge.jpg}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/ken-belson}{Ken Belson}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published July 31, 2020Updated Aug. 3, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The N.F.L. on Friday suspended wide receiver Antonio Brown for eight
regular-season games for his role in a January dispute with a moving
company employee, for which he pleaded no contest to burglary and
battery charges and received two years probation. Brown was also
penalized for sending threatening texts to a woman who accused him of
sexual misconduct. The suspension was
\href{https://twitter.com/RobertKlemko/status/1289272211207929856}{first
reported} by The Washington Post and was confirmed in a statement by the
league.

Brown still faces an investigation into
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/10/sports/football/antonio-brown-sexual-asssault-patriots.html}{accusations
that he sexually assaulted} his former trainer in 2017 and 2018. The
lawsuit,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/10/sports/football/antonio-brown-sexual-asssault-patriots.html}{filed
in federal court in South Florida}, where Brown has a home, remains open
and the receiver could still face additional penalties pending its
outcome. He has denied the accusations of sexual assault.

Under the terms of the N.F.L.'s suspension, Brown will also have to
participate in a counseling and treatment program. Any additional
violations of the N.F.L.'s personal conduct policy ``will likely result
in more significant discipline.''

Friday night, Brown addressed the suspension on social media. ``I look
forward to new beginnings,'' he
\href{https://www.instagram.com/p/CDVCrkeBb1w/}{wrote in an Instagram
post}. ``I appreciate the N.F.L. giving me the opportunity to work on
myself and improve.'' Brown will not appeal his suspension, according to
his agent, Ed Wasielewski.

A seven-time Pro Bowl selection while with the Pittsburgh Steelers,
Brown, 32, is an unrestricted free agent and can sign with any team. If
he is signed before the start of the regular season, he could take part
in his club's preseason activities, would start his suspension on Sept.
5. and could return after the team's eighth game. If he is unsigned, he
would be eligible to play after the eighth week of the season.

Brown was once considered one of the league's most prolific and popular
players --- known for his penalty-inducing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/05/23/sports/football/nfl-rules-changes-celebrations-overtime.html}{touchdown
celebrations} and a season on the reality TV competition ``Dancing With
the Stars'' --- but his career has been in a tailspin since he walked
out on the Steelers in 2018.

Pittsburgh traded him to the Raiders for two draft picks in March 2019,
but Oakland
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/07/sports/football/antonio-brown-raiders-released.html?module=inline}{released
him that September}, after a tumultuous training camp. The New England
Patriots picked him up, but after Brown lashed out against another woman
who,
\href{https://www.si.com/nfl/2019/09/16/antonio-brown-new-england-patriots-lawsuits-accusations-sexual-midconduct-assault}{in
a Sports Illustrated story}, accused him of a separate incident of
sexual misconduct, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/20/sports/antonio-brown-patriots-texts.html?module=inline}{Patriots
let him go}. Brown competed in one game with the Patriots, scoring a
touchdown.

The suspension, which was announced by the N.F.L.'s special counsel for
conduct, Todd Jones, comes as the league remains under scrutiny for how
it has handled cases involving domestic abuse, sexual assault and
harassment.

Brown's case is unusual partly because he has tried to defend himself on
social media. Since being released in 2019, he has said at least twice
that he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/22/sports/antonio-brown-retire-nfl.html}{plans
to retire from football}. He has also picked fights with his employers,
most notably the Raiders,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/07/sports/football/antonio-brown-raiders-released.html}{who
released him} after a series of incidents during the off-season and
training camp last year, including a
\href{https://twitter.com/RapSheet/status/1165670451332489216}{dispute
over the type of helmet} he could wear.

In
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2019/12/14/antonio-brown-cops-surround-florida-house-kid-clothes-baby-mama/}{December
2019} and
\href{https://www.tmz.com/2020/01/13/antonio-brown-police-hollywood-florida-chelsie-kyriss/}{January
2020}, Brown used social media to document domestic disputes with the
mother of his children, during which police were called to his house.
Brown was arrested and charged with burglary, battery and criminal
mischief in late January after a dispute with a moving company employee
over pay. He pleaded no contest and received two years probation, with
no travel restrictions.

Despite his troubles off the field, other prominent players have
embraced him. Brown worked out with Washington quarterback
\href{https://www.nbcsports.com/washington/redskins/video-dwayne-haskins-connects-antonio-brown-over-and-over-offseason-workout}{Dwayne
Haskins} and Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson in separate
practices, and with
\href{https://sports.yahoo.com/tom-brady-and-antonio-brown-are-working-out-with-deion-sanders-son-181014120.html}{Tampa
Bay Buccaneers quarterback Tom Brady}, who played with Brown in 2019.

Brown also worked out with
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pOJtVpB1Vq0}{Lamar Jackson, the
star quarterback} of the Baltimore Ravens, who this week
\href{https://www.espn.com/nfl/story/_/id/29559051/lamar-jackson-says-hoping-ravens-sign-antonio-brown}{publicly
lobbied for the team} to sign the receiver. Brown's cousin, Marquise
Brown, was a standout rookie receiver for the team in the 2019 season.

Since 2014, when the N.F.L. was heavily criticized for the uneven way it
had handled domestic violence accusations against its players, the
league
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2014/08/29/sports/football/roger-goodell-admits-he-was-wrong-and-alters-nfl-policy-on-domestic-violence.html}{has
sought to strengthen} its investigation department, adding former
prosecutors and specialists in sexual abuse. The league no longer relies
exclusively on the findings of law enforcement to determine whether to
suspend a player.

The league has suspended players after they have been on paid leave. For
example, Kareem Hunt, who was caught on video striking a woman in
February 2018,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/03/15/sports/football/kareem-hunt-.html}{was
suspended for eight games}. Josh Brown, who admitted to the police that
he had abused his wife, was initially suspended for one game in 2016.
After additional evidence was revealed, he was suspended with pay in
2017 while the league investigated the accusations against him.

In other cases, the league suspended players after they were charged
with domestic abuse, sexual assault and other violent crimes.

In Antonio Brown's case, N.F.L. investigators have examined accusations
made in a civil suit by his former trainer. In the suit, the trainer
accused Brown of sexually assaulting her twice during training sessions
in June 2017. She ended her working relationship with Brown, the lawsuit
says, but several months later, when he contacted her to apologize, she
relented. She was, according to the lawsuit, ``swayed by his assurance
that he would cease any sexual advances.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/31/sports/31brown-suspension-2/merlin_172890411_d3431a2a-7bdc-4ce2-a532-e73d02311001-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Then, the lawsuit says, on May 20, 2018, Brown forced her onto a bed,
pushed her face into the mattress and ``forcibly'' raped her.

\href{https://twitter.com/DarrenHeitner/status/1171584983280095233?s=20}{A
statement from Brown's lawyer} characterized the lawsuit as motivated by
money. The statement also mentioned at least one instance when the two
had consensual sex, adding that ``any sexual interaction with Mr. Brown
was entirely consensual.''

Brown was not charged criminally, and both Brown and his accuser,
through their lawyers, said they would cooperate with the league's
investigation, which began after the suit was filed on Sept. 11 last
year. N.F.L. representatives spoke with the woman in a meeting five days
later that
\href{https://sports.yahoo.com/the-nfl-has-interviewed-antonio-browns-accuser-now-roger-goodell-has-a-decision-to-make-014530565.html}{reportedly
lasted 10 hours}. The league's investigation remains open in part
because the case is still in court.

The Patriots, who said in a
\href{https://twitter.com/nick_underhill/status/1171631870607613957}{statement}
that they strongly condemned domestic violence, owed Brown a \$9 million
signing bonus that was reportedly reduced to \$5 million after a
settlement.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
