Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}A.O.C. and the
Jurassic Jerks

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jzxvqS}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{aoc-and-the-jurassic-jerks}{%
\section{A.O.C. and the Jurassic
Jerks}\label{aoc-and-the-jurassic-jerks}}

For the Cave Man President and his party, clubbing women is not a path
to victory.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maureen-dowd}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/04/02/opinion/maureen-dowd/maureen-dowd-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/maureen-dowd}{Maureen Dowd}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 25, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/25/opinion/25dowd1/merlin_174871467_262be276-8ecc-4d40-bf98-66e9c5d37d40-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump is oh so proud of having mastered the ability to intone,
``Person. Woman. Man. Camera. TV.''

But the more pressing issue is whether he is a person who can master
talking to women through a TV camera without sounding like a cave man.

We continually debate whether Trump is a madman, but there's no doubt
he's a Mad Man. He's a ring-a-ding-ding guy, stuck in a time warp
redolent of Vegas with the Rat Pack in 1959, talking about how
``broads'' and ``skirts'' rate. He was in his element bro-ing out with
Dave Portnoy in an interview for ``Barstool Sports'' that aired Friday.

Trump's idea of wooing the women's vote, which is decisive in this
election, was to tweet out a New York Post story headlined ``Joe Biden's
disastrous plans for America's suburbs'' with the directive: ``The
Suburban Housewives of America must read this article.''

Clearly, the 74-year-old president thinks that American women are in the
kitchen, clutching their pearls à la June Cleaver, sheltered in the
'burbs in their gingham aprons, waiting for their big, brave
breadwinners to come home after a hard day's work manhandling their
secretaries.

Trump believes that the coveted electoral cohort that used to be known
as soccer moms are actually sucker moms, naïve enough to fall for his
schtick that the unleashed forces of urban America are marching toward
their manicured lawns.

How perfect that the pussy-grabbing president --- whose personal lawyer,
Michael Cohen, got in trouble over his boss's porn-star payout --- wants
to protect the desperate housewives of America.

In a speech on drug prices on Friday, Trump took his strange brand of
feminism for a spin, pausing while he talked about middlemen profiting
in the Big Pharma arena, to say ``and women, I guess.''

On the Bulwark, a conservative website, Sarah Longwell
\href{https://thebulwark.com/what-women-want/}{wrote about} her
three-years-worth of focus groups with women who voted for Trump in
2016.

She found that they chose Trump over Hillary Clinton because they did
not like Clinton and because they felt that Bill Clinton's bad behavior
with women canceled out Trump's bad behavior with women.

But the relationship with women voters has soured, not only because of
his pugnacity and bullying, but because of his lack of compassion and
competence dealing with the coronavirus and painful issues about race.

``They don't see Trump as someone who can \emph{protect} them from the
chaos,'' Longwell wrote. ``They think he's the \emph{source} of it.''

And his party is on board with the antediluvian vibe. R-Misogyny. Even
on the 100th anniversary of women getting the vote, Republicans can't
help themselves.

It feels strange to be typing something positive in a sentence with the
word Cheney in it, but it was disturbing to see a bunch of MAGA bros in
Congress beat up on Liz Cheney because, among other offenses to the cult
of Trump, she defended Dr. Anthony Fauci and shaded Trump on his denial
on the virus by
\href{https://twitter.com/liz_cheney/status/1276591702321647616}{tweeting}
a picture of her father in a mask with the hashtag,
``realmenwearmasks.''

One Trump disciple in the House, Rep. Matt Gaetz,
\href{https://twitter.com/mattgaetz/status/1285611975121174528}{tweeted}
that ``Liz Cheney has worked behind the scenes (and now in public)
against @realDonald Trump and his agenda.'' He added, ``Liz Cheney
should step down or be removed.''

Donald Jr.
\href{https://twitter.com/DonaldJTrumpJr/status/1285612789923491842?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1285612789923491842\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fthehill.com\%2Fhomenews\%2Fhouse\%2F508333-trump-jr-on-cheney-we-already-have-one-mitt-romney-we-dont-need-another}{chimed
in} on Twitter, ``We already have one Mitt Romney, we don't need
another.''

(Of course, while it feels strange to be typing something positive in a
sentence with the word Trump in it, Don Jr. was right in his second
point, ``We also don't need the endless wars she advocates for.'' That
point was echoed by the president on Twitter. I would never agree with a
Cheney's mindless hawkishness.)

As Republicans sniped, one Democrat soared.

Ted Yoho, a Florida Republican, tried to slap down Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez. A reporter overheard him muttering that the congresswoman
was ``a fucking bitch'' as Yoho walked away after having an argument
with her about crime and policing on the steps of the Capitol. (Yoho
denies he said it.)

The youngest woman to ever serve in Congress is so full of natural
political talent, burning so bright, that the 2020 field seems dull next
to her luster. It was a remarkable moment on Capitol Hill, where for
years super-achieving women have let such sexist remarks slide.

She went to the House floor Thursday and schooled Yoho the Yahoo and the
retrograde crowd.

``Mr. Yoho mentioned that he has a wife and two daughters,'' she said.
``I am two years younger than Mr. Yoho's youngest daughter. I am
someone's daughter, too.'' She added, ``I am here because I have to show
my parents that I am their daughter, and that they did not raise me to
accept abuse from men.''

Showing her skill in a generational dimension foreign to Congress until
now, A.O.C.
\href{https://twitter.com/itsbecrose/status/1285692799812341760?ref_src=twsrc\%5Etfw\%7Ctwcamp\%5Etweetembed\%7Ctwterm\%5E1285692799812341760\%7Ctwgr\%5E\&ref_url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.foxnews.com\%2Fpolitics\%2Faoc-posts-boss-video-yoho-confrontation}{posted
a video} of herself on Instagram Stories strutting to the rap tune
``Boss Bitch'' by Doja Cat, her long hair whipping to the music, with
the Capitol in the background. ``I'm a bitch and a boss, Im'a shine like
gloss.'' She captioned it: ``Shine on, fight for others, and let the
haters stay mad.''

And that's the way you make Paleolithic men understand that they are
history.

\emph{The Times is committed to publishing}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/31/opinion/letters/letters-to-editor-new-york-times-women.html}{\emph{a
diversity of letters}} \emph{to the editor. We'd like to hear what you
think about this or any of our articles. Here are some}
\href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-submit-a-letter-to-the-editor}{\emph{tips}}\emph{.
And here's our email:}
\href{mailto:letters@nytimes.com}{\emph{letters@nytimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Follow The New York Times Opinion section on}
\href{https://www.facebook.com/nytopinion}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{http://twitter.com/NYTOpinion}{\emph{Twitter (@NYTopinion)}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytopinion/}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
