Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/interactive/2018/briefing/global-morning-briefing-newsletter-signup.html}{Briefing}\textbar{}Coronavirus,
Hurricane Hanna, Regis Philbin: Your Weekend Briefing

\url{https://nyti.ms/2CGl3Fr}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-hurricane-hanna-regis-philbin-your-weekend-briefing}{%
\section{Coronavirus, Hurricane Hanna, Regis Philbin: Your Weekend
Briefing}\label{coronavirus-hurricane-hanna-regis-philbin-your-weekend-briefing}}

Here's what you need to know about the week's top stories.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/remy-tumin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/01/10/multimedia/author-remy-tumin/author-remy-tumin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elijah-walker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/18/reader-center/author-elijah-walker/author-elijah-walker-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/remy-tumin}{Remy Tumin}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/elijah-walker}{Elijah
Walker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 26, 2020, 4:47 a.m. ET
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{(Want to get this briefing by email? Here's the}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/morning-briefing}{\emph{sign-up}}\emph{.)}

\emph{Here are the week's top stories, and a look ahead}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/reader-center/26weekend-briefing-map/26weekend-briefing-map-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\textbf{1. The coronavirus caseload around the United States} continues
to soar.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?\#link-67763577}{Eighteen
states set single-day case records} in the past week, pushing the
country closer to breaking the national single-day record for new cases,
set less than two weeks ago. More than 73,500 were reported on Friday
and more than 66,300 coronavirus cases on Saturday. The record is
75,697.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?a}{Here's
the latest map and case count}.

With more than 4 million known infections and nearly \textbf{146,300}
deaths,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/23/us/coronavirus-hospitalizations-us.html?}{hospitalizations
also continue to climb}.

Is it possible to stabilize infections without going into full lockdown?
Arizona, which experienced an alarming rate of growth this summer,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/us/coronavirus-arizona.html}{is
presenting as a real-time experiment}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with
our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/24/briefing/federal-agents-john-lewis-mars-news-quiz.html}{news
quiz}. And here's the front page of our
\href{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/26/nytfrontpage/scan.pdf}{Sunday
paper},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion/sunday}{the
Sunday Review} from Opinion and our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/crosswords}{crossword puzzles}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Tyler Hicks/The New York Times

\textbf{2. The Amazon River,} South America's essential life source, is
unleashing the virus on the entire region. We spent weeks on the river
documenting the toll.

Brazil has the second-highest death toll in the world --- behind only
the U.S. The six cities with the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/25/world/americas/coronavirus-brazil-amazon.html?}{highest
coronavirus exposure are all on the Amazon River,} according to
researchers. Nearly everyone there relies on the river and the boats
that travel along it --- for transportation, food, medicine. Researchers
say they are behind the spread of the virus.

The region's ability to confront the pandemic has been further weakened
under President Jair Bolsonaro, who has publicly mocked it, even though
he tested positive himself.

The U.S. still has by far the largest outbreak in the world, while much
of Europe and Asia has flattened the curve.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/23/us/coronavirus-hotspots-countries.html?}{This
chart} shows how the U.S. compares with other hot spots.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Tamir Kalifa for The New York Times

\textbf{3. We're tracking Hurricane Hanna} as it bears down on southern
Texas, a region that is struggling to contain the pandemic.

The Category 1 storm,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/hanna-storm-texas.html}{the
first hurricane of the Atlantic season}, brought harsh winds and rain to
Corpus Christi, above, and the surrounding area. Winds could reach up to
110 m.p.h., the National Weather Service warned. A storm surge warning
reached as far north as about 75 miles south of Houston. Hanna's eye
made landfall on Padre Island, about 60 miles north of the U.S.-Mexico
border with winds of 90 m.p.h.

Nueces County, which includes Corpus Christi, has had nearly 2,000 new
virus cases and 47 deaths in the past seven days alone. The spike was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/11/us/coronavirus-texas-corpus-christi.html?smid=tw-nytimes\&smtyp=cur}{fueled
in part by visitors who flocked to the beach city} because of its low
case count.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Mason Trinca for The New York Times

\textbf{4. Federal agents are venturing} blocks from the buildings they
were sent to protect in Portland. Oregon officials say they
are\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/portland-federal-legal-jurisdiction-courts.html}{illegally
taking on the role of riot police}.

``I think it's absolutely improper,'' Oregon's attorney general, Ellen
Rosenblum, said. ``It's absolutely beyond their authority.''

What began as a movement for racial justice in the wake of George
Floyd's killing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/portland-protests-explained-protesters.html}{has
become a broader campaign to dislodge the federal forces}, who arrived
this month to help control protests. Ostensibly there to protect federal
property, the agents have made dozens of arrests for federal crimes.

Each night, for nearly 60 days straight, a
``\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/world/americas/protest-moms-power-police.html}{Wall
of Moms''} has formed; they're now joined by a ``Wall of Vets,'' who
have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/a-wall-of-vets-joins-the-front-lines-of-portland-protests.html}{banded
together to protect the free speech of demonstrators}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Erik S Lesser/EPA, via Shutterstock

\textbf{5. Nearly 100 days from Election Day,} the fight over free and
fair elections --- and faith in the outcome ---
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/politics/2020-election-voter-fraud-interference.html}{has
become a cornerstone of the race}.

President Trump has claimed, without evidence, that mail-in voting leads
to fraud and pre-emptively cast doubt on the credibility of the final
results, while Joe Biden has warned of foreign interference and
cautioned that his opponent might seek to disrupt the election.

And then there are the hazards of voting in a pandemic-challenged
election year. Take Georgia, for example, where, as one poll worker put
it,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/us/politics/georgia-election-voting-problems.html}{a
``complete meltdown'' took place during the state's June primary}.
Voters waited for hours, only to be met with malfunctioning equipment.

A Times examination found that Georgia's top elections official, the
secretary of state, remained passive despite repeated warnings about the
rollout of a highly complex voting system. Questions have also emerged
about the accuracy of the vote count. Above, the State Farm Arena in
Atlanta is an early-voting site for the August primary runoff and for
the general election.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Phelan M. Ebenhack/Associated Press

\textbf{6. Sports are \ldots{} coming back.}

The M.L.B. and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/sports/basketball/wnba-season-preview.html}{W.N.B.A.}
returned to play this week after a long hiatus because of the pandemic.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/sports/basketball/breanna-stewart-seattle-storm-wnba.html}{Breanna
Stewart} and the Seattle Storm won the first game of the season against
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/basketball/wnba-eastern-conference-preview.html}{Sabrina
Ionescu}, above, and the New York Liberty. The season is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/sports/wnba-seattle-storm-new-york-liberty.html}{dedicated
to Breonna Taylor}, who died in a police shooting.

There may have been cardboard cutouts in the seats in place of fans, but
the return of baseball ``was so much better than nothing,''
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/baseball/mlb-opening-day.html}{our
columnist writes}. He wasn't alone: Opening day was the
\href{https://www.espn.com/mlb/story/_/id/29532370/mlb-opener-was-most-viewed-regular-season-game-2011}{most-viewed
regular-season game} since 2011.

The N.B.A. and N.H.L. will restart their seasons next weekend. Our
basketball reporter says
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/sports/basketball/nba-lebron-james-lakers.html}{LeBron
James looks as dominant as ever}.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Chad Batka for The New York Times

\textbf{7. Regis Philbin,} who regaled America over coffee for decades
and introduced the hit ``Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,'' died. He was
88.

Universally known as Regis, Mr. Philbin climbed to pre-eminence
relatively late in life on talk and game shows, with patience,
determination and folksy, spontaneous wit. He co-hosted alongside Kathie
Lee Gifford and Kelly Ripa in the mornings for decades, and at night he
turned ``Millionaire'' into the highest-rated prime-time game show in TV
history.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2011/11/15/arts/television/regis-philbin-looks-back-at-a-long-unscripted-career.html}{In
a 2011 interview}, Mr. Philbin said that for a long time he felt a
certain insecurity about what his talent really was. But then he
eventually figured it out: ``Spontaneous conversation,'' he said.
``Spontaneity is everything to me, working without a net.''

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...An Rong Xu for The New York Times

\textbf{8. A different way to hang out the laundry.}

Chang Wan-ji, 83, and Hso Sho-er, 84, have become Instagram stars in
quarantine. The Taiwanese couple pose at a place they know well ---
their laundromat --- and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/world/asia/taiwan-octogenarian-couple-instagram-laundry.html}{their
funky fashions are curated from customers' forgotten garments}. They are
naturals in front of the camera.

``I had no idea so many foreigners would take interest in my
grandparents,'' said their 31-year-old grandson and unofficial stylist,
who came up with the idea for the
\href{https://www.instagram.com/wantshowasyoung/?hl=en}{Instagram
account}.

Mr. Chang said he hoped his and his wife's experience would inspire
other seniors to be active. ``It's better than sitting around watching
TV or napping,'' Mr. Chang said.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Tara Donne for The New York Times. Food Stylist: Chris Lanier

\textbf{9. Get out the napkins for this one.}

The ultimate test **** of a grill master's mettle is ribs, and they're
surprisingly easy to make at home. It takes time and effort, but Steven
Raichlen, author of ``The Barbecue Bible,'' laid out
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/dining/bbq-ribs-recipe.html}{six
easy steps and a recipe to get that barbecue joint taste}.

And it's officially corn season. You can add it to almost anything.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/25/at-home/coronavirus-corn-ideas.html}{Here
are some ideas.}

Don't forget the drinks: Beyond Champagne, excellent bubbly comes in a
diversity of styles from all over. Our wine columnist set out to find
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/dining/drinks/best-sparkling-wines.html}{12
sparkling wines that offer their own personalities} --- and need no
special occasion.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

Image

Credit...Roff Smith

\textbf{10. And finally,} our
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/briefing/best-weekend-reads.html?}{Best
Weekend Reads}.

A glimpse into the workshops of the world's finest Panama hat makers,
above, global bake sales to fight injustice and surfing's
almost-historic year are among this week's great stories.

For more ideas on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest
these
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/books/review/10-new-books-we-recommend-this-week.html}{10
new books} our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen
recommendations from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/23/arts/television/Wynonna-Earp-hannibal-meerkat-manor.html}{Watching},
and our music critics'
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/arts/music/playlist-taylor-swift-j-cole-drake.html}{latest
playlist}.

Stay cool this week. These photos of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/24/nyregion/nyc-pools-open.html}{opening
day for New York City's pools} may help.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\emph{Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.}

\emph{Did a friend forward you the briefing? You can sign up}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/morning-briefing}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

\emph{What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at}
\href{mailto:briefing@NYTimes.com?subject=Weekend\%20Briefing\%20Feedback}{\emph{briefing@NYTimes.com}}\emph{.}

\emph{Browse our full range of Times newsletters}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters}{\emph{here}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
