Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Saudis May Blame
Intelligence Official for Killing Jamal Khashoggi

\url{https://nyti.ms/2AhXz5h}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{saudis-may-blame-intelligence-official-for-killing-jamal-khashoggi}{%
\section{Saudis May Blame Intelligence Official for Killing Jamal
Khashoggi}\label{saudis-may-blame-intelligence-official-for-killing-jamal-khashoggi}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/12/us/politics/10dc-assassinate4/10dc-assassinate4-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-d-kirkpatrick}{David D.
Kirkpatrick} and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-hubbard}{Ben
Hubbard}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Oct. 18, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

ISTANBUL --- The rulers of Saudi Arabia are considering blaming a top
intelligence official close to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for the
killing of Jamal Khashoggi, three people with knowledge of the Saudi
plans said Thursday.

The plan to assign blame to Maj. Gen. Ahmed al-Assiri, a high-ranking
adviser to the crown prince, would be an extraordinary recognition of
the magnitude of international backlash to hit the kingdom since the
disappearance of Mr. Khashoggi, a prominent Saudi dissident. A resident
of Virginia and contributor to The Washington Post, Mr. Khashoggi was
last seen entering the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2.

Blaming General Assiri could also provide a plausible explanation for
the apparent killing and help deflect blame from the crown prince, who
American intelligence agencies are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/17/world/middleeast/pompeo-khashoggi-murder.html}{increasingly
convinced} was behind Mr. Khashoggi's disappearance.

Turkish officials have said they possess evidence showing that 15 Saudi
agents
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/17/world/europe/turkey-saudi-khashoggi-dismember.html}{assassinated}and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/17/world/europe/turkey-saudi-khashoggi-dismember.html}{dismembered
Mr. Khashoggi} in the consulate.

After two weeks of blanket denials and mounting pressure from Turkey and
Washington, Saudi Arabia said it would conduct its own investigation to
determine who was responsible.

\emph{{[}Four of the suspects in Jamal Khashoggi's disappearance}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/world/middleeast/khashoggi-saudi-prince.html?action=click\&module=Intentional\&pgtype=Article}{\emph{belong
to the security team}} \emph{of the Saudi crown prince.{]}}

But even with the investigation still ostensibly underway, the Saudis
are already pointing to General Assiri as the culprit, according to the
three people familiar with the Saudi plans. People close to the White
House have already been briefed and given General Assiri's name.

Whether that move will be enough to calm the international crisis and
what it may mean for Prince Mohammed, the kingdom's day-to-day ruler,
remain to be seen.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/10/19/world/19dc-prexy-1-print/merlin_145463547_71f59cf1-c90c-4cce-92be-e779c24a47ac-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

President Trump, who has made the crown prince a pillar of his Middle
East policy, has been equivocal, at times raising questions about Saudi
Arabia's culpability and resisting calls from Congress for sanctions. On
Thursday, Mr. Trump said he believed that Mr. Khashoggi was dead and
that ``the consequences should be severe.''

Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump's son-in-law and Middle East adviser, has been
urging the president to stand by the prince, according to a person close
to the White House and a former official with knowledge of the
discussions.

Mr. Kushner has argued that the crown prince can survive the outrage
just as he has weathered past criticism.

American lawmakers of both parties, however, are expressing far greater
horror at what appears to be the brutal killing of Mr. Khashoggi,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/14/world/middleeast/jamal-khashoggi-saudi-arabia.html}{a
veteran of the Saudi establishment} who was well known among journalists
and diplomats. His story has captured the attention of the American
public far
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/17/world/middleeast/jamal-khashoggi-saudi-arabia.html}{more
than the mass killings and other atrocities} in the region, and a
growing number of lawmakers are demanding some sanction.

General Assiri, who previously served as the spokesman for the Saudi-led
military intervention in Yemen, is close enough to the crown prince to
have easy access to his ear and has considerable authority to enlist
lower-ranking personnel in a mission.

The Saudi rulers are expected to say that General Assiri received oral
authorization from Prince Mohammed to capture Mr. Khashoggi for an
interrogation in Saudi Arabia, but either misunderstood his instructions
or overstepped that authorization and took the dissident's life,
according to two of the people familiar with the Saudi plans. They spoke
on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief
journalists.

Even in this scenario, however, Prince Mohammed would still have ordered
an operation to abduct a resident of the United States, apparently only
on the basis of his public criticism of Saudi leaders.

Given General Assiri's lofty rank, declaring his culpability would also
reflect on the crown prince. Prince Mohammed elevated General Assiri to
his current post, and General Assiri is close enough to him that he has
often sat in when the crown prince meets with visiting American
officials.

Some critics of the kingdom are already arguing that scapegoating an
underling would be little more than a diversion.

Image

American intelligence agencies are increasingly convinced that Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who met with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo
on Tuesday, was behind the killing of Mr. Khashoggi.

Credit...

Pool photo by Leah Millis

``The responsibility is with the de facto ruler, who is the crown
prince,'' argued Madawi al-Rasheed, a professor at the London School of
Economics and a frequent critic of Prince Mohammed.

Four of the suspects Turkey has blamed for Mr. Khashoggi's disappearance
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/16/world/middleeast/khashoggi-saudi-prince.html}{belong
to the security team} that travels with Prince Mohammed. One of them,
Maher Abdulaziz Mutreb, has been photographed or spotted near him during
recent visits to at least five cities --- Paris, Madrid, Houston, Boston
and the New York headquarters of the United Nations.

On Thursday, a pro-government Turkish newspaper published a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/18/world/middleeast/jamal-khashoggi-mohammed-bin-salman-turkey-saudi-arabia.html}{leaked,
time-stamped photograph} of Mr. Mutreb entering the Saudi Consulate in
Istanbul just hours before Mr. Khashoggi entered. The photograph is one
of the most striking pieces of evidence linking Mr. Khashoggi's
disappearance to the crown prince.

Other photos published in the newspaper Sabah showed Mr. Mutreb outside
the Saudi consul general's home, leaving a Turkish hotel with a large
suitcase, and leaving the country from Istanbul's international airport
--- all later the same day.

General Assiri's seniority makes the notion that he carried out the
operation without the further participation of Prince Mohammed at least
technically plausible. Lower-ranking Saudi officers might have trusted
that the general was giving them orders on behalf of the prince.

If Mr. Khashoggi was murdered, it could be treated as a capital crime.
How the kingdom might punish General Assiri, however, is another
question.

The general has been a well-known face to the international news media
since he was named as spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition that
intervened in Yemen in 2015. He gave interviews in fluent French,
English and Arabic, but often privately harassed reporters when their
reports turned out not to his liking.

General Assiri was promoted last year to his current job in
intelligence, and the Saudis are expected to contend that in the
Khashoggi case he was seeking to prove himself, according to the people
familiar with their plans.

General Assiri did not respond to phone calls seeking comment.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
