Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}Tastes From Asia, Not Easy to Find
in New York. Until Now.

\url{https://nyti.ms/34iH6L6}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Restaurant Preview

\hypertarget{tastes-from-asia-not-easy-to-find-in-new-york-until-now}{%
\section{Tastes From Asia, Not Easy to Find in New York. Until
Now.}\label{tastes-from-asia-not-easy-to-find-in-new-york-until-now}}

The fall's new restaurants will serve a variety, from ancient white soba
noodles to an updated twist on disco fries.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Dishes1/merlin_159860661_02e21e39-6712-4173-8483-3098b7fb0b04-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/amelia-nierenberg}{Amelia
Nierenberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

It may take some vertical maneuvering to get there: venturing down into
the 34th Street-Herald Square subway station to try sea pineapple, or up
to the third floor of an office building in Koreatown for abomasum, a
cow stomach. But at new restaurants this fall, New Yorkers can try a
number of dishes and ingredients from around Asia that may be otherwise
hard to find in town.

In the first international outpost of
\href{https://www.sarashina-horii.com/en/}{Sarashina Horii}, one of
Tokyo's oldest and
\href{https://watch.travelchannel.com/tv-shows/anthony-bourdain-no-reservations/full-episodes/tokyo}{most
celebrated restaurants}, the ninth-generation soba maker Yoshinori Horii
will bring white soba noodles to the Flatiron district. His family
founded the restaurant in 1789, when they served soba to the Japanese
Imperial Household.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Dishes8/03Preview-Dishes8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

To make white soba, the buckwheat is milled to shuck the exterior of the
seeds using the same technique employed in making sake from rice. The
noodles are smoother than the traditional, chewier soba. Choosing a
location for his first restaurant outside Japan was easy, Mr. Horii
said: ``New York is a showcase to the global world.''

Image

At Toko, sea pineapple will be prepared two ways: as sashimi, left, in
its shell with citrus ponzu and shiso, and as somen noodles, with
pickled vegetables and vegetable dashi.~Credit...Jeenah Moon for The New
York Times

Another East Asian ingredient, sea pineapple, an edible sea squirt, will
be served at Toko, a moody-looking 18-seat underground sushi bar,
accessible through the entrance to the 34th Street subway station at the
northeast corner of 32nd Street and Broadway. ``The texture is somewhere
between an oyster or clam and a geoduck, sort of a crunchy, snappy
texture,'' said the chef, J. Trent Harris, who formerly worked at
\href{https://www.shukonyc.com/}{Shuko}. The restaurant was developed by
Bobby Kwak and Joseph Ko of Baekjeong Korean Barbecue, a franchise with
locations in \href{https://www.baekjeongnyc.com/}{New York} and
\href{http://kijung.com/baekjeong-korean-bbq/}{Los Angeles}. Nami Song,
a chef who worked at Bouley, will be in charge of the hot kitchen.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/03/dining/fall-restaurant-preview-nyc.html}{\emph{Click
here to read more from our restaurant preview.}}\emph{{]}}

At Toko, the sea pineapple will be prepared as either nigiri or sashimi,
with a simple vinegar-soy-sauce marinade and a twist of citrus. ``It has
a little bit of that petrol note that you get from an aged riesling,''
Mr. Harris said. ``And, of course, that salinity.''

Image

Abomasum, the fourth stomach of a cow, will be grilled at
Ahgassi~Gopchang in Manhattan. It is marinated for hours.Credit...Jeenah
Moon for The New York Times

Mr. Kwak and Mr. Ko are also opening a New York outpost of the popular
Los Angeles Korean barbecue restaurant, Ahgassi Gopchang, in Manhattan's
Koreatown. New York's Ahgassi, which means ``young lady'' in Korean,
will serve intestine-based dishes. The restaurant's name draws from a
belief that ``for some reason or other in Korea, many women seem to
enjoy tripe or offal more than men,'' said Michael Sim, the chef and a
partner.

One offering will be abomasum, the fourth stomach of a cow, which will
be prepared in a two-day process --- first, cleaned to banish unsavory
odors, then marinated in spices before it is grilled. ``It's leftover
cuts that they give to poor people or not as privileged people,'' Mr.
Sim said. ``But ours is different because it's marinated. It's like
nothing I've ever had before.''

Image

Thai Diner, in NoLIta, will revamp cheese-covered disco fries. Instead
of traditional gravy, they'll be topped with a massaman
curry.Credit...Emon Hassan for The New York Times

Thai Diner, in NoLIta, will revamp an American diner classic --- disco
fries, normally covered with cheese and gravy --- with a housemade
massaman curry with peanuts and coconut milk. ``You often have potatoes
served in the curry, so the two go together,'' said the chef,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/09/11/dining/the-family-apron.html}{Ann
Redding}, who owns
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/07/03/dining/reviews/restaurant-review-uncle-boons-in-nolita.html}{Uncle
Boons} and \href{https://www.uncleboonssister.com/}{Uncle Boons Sister}
with her husband, Matt Danzer. ``The idea is not to do fusion dishes,
but to literally do classic American diner dishes alongside Thai
dishes.''

Image

Kanom krok, a staple of Thai street food, is hard to make. It's a bit of
a logistical nightmare,'' said Ann Redding, the chef at Thai Diner. ``My
mom definitely raised her eyebrow at me when I told her they would be on
the menu.''Credit...Emon Hassan for The New York Times

The diner will also offer kanom krok, a street-food staple in Bangkok
that is harder to find in New York. Ms. Redding described them as
``coconut custard cups,'' topped with something savory: traditionally
scallion, corn or taro. If you're extra nice, you might even get the
off-the-menu option: caviar, freshly scooped.

In another fast-casual joint, the financial district sandwich shop
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/06/25/dining/don-wagyu-sandwich-japan-sando.html}{Don
Wagyu} is using its move to
\href{http://www.thebowerymarket.com/}{Bowery Market} to introduce the
Hot Wagyu. The open-faced sandwich will give dry-aged Wagyu beef a
Nashville-hot-chicken twist: It will be brined in buttermilk and the
Japanese spice togarashi before it is heated on the griddle.

``I thought of it late at night one night, and I just wrote it down on
my phone,'' said Corwin Kave, the executive chef. The \$26 offering will
be served on a piece of Balthazar bread and topped with a sauce of
fermented chile, ginger and sansho pepper. ``It's my favorite thing on
the menu,'' he said.

Luxury will also masquerade as a snack at Dhamaka, an Indian restaurant
coming to the Lower East Side. At this newest collaboration from Roni
Mazumdar and the chef Chintan Pandya, the team behind the popular
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/11/20/dining/adda-indian-canteen-review.html}{Adda}
in Long Island City and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/03/13/dining/indian-restaurants-manhattan-babu-ji.html}{Rahi}
in Greenwich Village, goat or lamb testicles will be served in kapoora
masala.

Although Indian cuisine does not use stir-frying, Mr. Pandya said it
might be the best shorthand to explain his preparation of the testicles,
which will be served as a snack, tossed with dry curry. Dhamaka will
focus on grilling, a Rajasthani approach that Mr. Mazumdar said is far
removed from curry-centric, Americanized versions of Indian cooking.
``There's a whole different side of our cuisine, which feeds a quarter
of the planet,'' he said.

Image

At Paisley, pork sorpotel will be marinated in toddy vinegar and cashew
feni. To the left are sanna rice cakes.~Credit...Jeenah Moon for The New
York Times

From Goa, India, comes
\href{http://www.paisleyrestaurantnyc.com/}{Paisley}, the newest
restaurant from
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2002/07/31/dining/25-and-under-a-spicy-indian-spot-that-doesn-t-care-to-fit-in.html}{Eric
McCarthy}, a veteran chef and former ``Chopped'' contestant, who has
worked at Tulsi and the Michelin-starred Tamarind. One dish on his menu,
pork sorpotel, is marinated with toddy vinegar, made from the nectar of
coconut flowers, and cashew feni, a strong home-brewed liquor made from
fermented cashew fruit. To make the vinegar, young people climb trees,
cut off the coconut flowers and tie clay pots underneath to catch the
dripping nectar. A month later, chefs drop a piping-hot roof tile into
the pot to turn the nectar into vinegar.

``It's basically fermented coconut water,'' Mr. McCarthy said. ``This is
not a commercial process. It's a homestyle process of making vinegar.
It's what I learned from my granny.''

``It's my dream to do this," he added. ``I want New Yorkers to come and
experience and taste something very different.''

\textbf{Ahgassi} 315 Fifth Avenue (32nd Street), third floor, November.

\textbf{\href{http://donwagyu.net/}{Don Wagyu}} **** Bowery Market, 348
Bowery, September.

\textbf{Dhamaka} Essex Street Market, 88 Essex Street, October.

\textbf{\href{http://www.paisleyrestaurantnyc.com/}{Paisley}} 429
Greenwich Street (Laight Street). September.

\textbf{\href{https://www.sarashina-horii.com/en/}{Sarashina Horii}}
**** 45 East 20th Street, November.

\textbf{Toko} 49 West 32nd Street, November.

\textbf{\href{http://thaidiner.com/}{Thai Diner}} 186 Mott Street
(Kenmare Street), October.

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.youtube.com/nytcooking}{\emph{YouTube}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get
regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips
and shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
