Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/food}{Food}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/food}{Food}\textbar{}In Fall's Biggest Openings,
Experience Is on the Menu

\url{https://nyti.ms/2NMXaih}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

The Restaurant Preview

\hypertarget{in-falls-biggest-openings-experience-is-on-the-menu}{%
\section{In Fall's Biggest Openings, Experience Is on the
Menu}\label{in-falls-biggest-openings-experience-is-on-the-menu}}

Seasoned chefs and restaurateurs, many of them women, and a wide array
of cuisines head up our reporter's list of most-anticipated new
restaurants.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Faves1/03Preview-Faves1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/florence-fabricant}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/16/multimedia/author-florence-fabricant/author-florence-fabricant-thumbLarge.png}}

By
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/florence-fabricant}{Florence
Fabricant}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 3, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Opening a restaurant takes vision, but also money, patience and luck,
especially in New York, where the competition is fierce and simple
details like getting a gas hookup can become ordeals. Experienced chefs
and restaurateurs are better at it, and this fall they'll be the ones
setting most of the tempting new tables.

Many of the new places I'm looking forward to most eagerly will have
women running their kitchens, some with familiar names, others worth
discovering, and all with admirable track records.

The one feature that will be absent almost everywhere is tablecloths.

The city has raw bars to spare, but Canal Street Oysters, from the
seasoned restaurateurs Anthony and Tom Martignetti, will be a
blockbuster, in a Beaux-Arts building with seating for 200, including 30
at the central limestone bar. Heading the kitchen will be
\href{https://www.reynardnyc.com/team-member/charlene-santiago/}{Charlene
Santiago}, who was at the John Dory Oyster Bar and Reynard. The array of
shellfish, raw and cooked, may include gooseneck barnacles but no
lobsters. There's a paella, and sandwiches like cod banh mi, along with
beers galore and natural wines, practically a requirement for new
restaurants this year.

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/09/03/dining/fall-restaurant-preview-nyc.html}{\emph{Click
here to read more from our restaurant preview.}}\emph{{]}}

At 232 Bleecker, on Father Demo Square in the West Village, the
executive chef will be Suzanne Cupps, who is leaving
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2015/08/05/dining/restaurant-review-untitled-at-the-whitney-in-the-meatpacking-district.html}{Untitled
at the Whitney,} where she was the first woman to be executive chef in a
Danny Meyer restaurant. She will have a six-foot wood-burning oven
facing a chef's counter. An upstate farm owned by
\href{https://www.diginn.com/}{Dig Food Group}, the restaurant's owner,
will supply fresh produce she will feature.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/09/04/dining/03Preview-Faves2/merlin_159353571_0ae77bc2-081b-40ca-aae1-a985befab79c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Nearby, Da Toscano will open in the former Perla space, a homecoming for
the chef, Michael Toscano, who was Perla's executive chef. Mr. Toscano
has been in Charleston, S.C., where he is an owner of
\href{https://charlestonwineandfood.com/participants/michael-toscano/}{Le
Farfalle}. Here, he will take advantage of a wood-burning oven to turn
out the hearty regional Italian fare I so admired at Perla; his wife,
Caitlin Toscano, will manage the restaurant.

The chef Leah Cohen, who owns the Southeast Asian restaurant
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/03/13/dining/reviews/restaurant-review-jeepney-in-the-east-village-pig-and-khao-on-the-lower-east-side.html}{Pig
and Khao} with Benjamin Byruch, sees opportunity in the underserved
neighborhood near Madison Square Garden. Their new Piggyback NYC will
serve cha ca la Vong, the Vietnamese fish classic in a thicket of herbs;
charcoal-smoked rib-eye; and Filipino lumpia spring rolls with
Shanghai-style sweet chile sauce.

Image

At Llama San, the owner and executive chef, Erik Ramirez, left, and the
chef de cuisine Sergio Nakayoshi.Credit...Jeenah Moon for The New York
Times

From South America, there will be the very personal interpretation of
Brazilian cooking from Manoella Buffara, and two restaurants
specializing in Nikkei cuisine, which blends Peruvian and Japanese fare
in dishes like raw fish tiradito.
\href{https://www.pannacooking.com/chefs/erik-ramirez/}{Erik Ramirez} of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/02/10/dining/llama-inn-review.html}{Llama
Inn} in Brooklyn will open Llama San, in a polished, pale-wood West
Village setting with an open kitchen and a Peruvian wall-hanging.
``Nikkei through a New York lens'' is how he described food like spicy
seafood stew with mirin and miso.

In Brooklyn, the Nikkei chef
\href{https://www.ricardomzarate.com/}{Ricardo Zarate} will bring a
spinoff of his Las Vegas restaurant,
\href{https://www.oncelv.com/}{Once} (pronounced on-SEH), to Carroll
Gardens with dishes like Japanese eggplant ceviche, braised short ribs
with pickled miso vegetables and grilled shrimp with yuzu.

Ryan Bartlow worked at
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/07/10/dining/frenchette-review-restaurant-tribeca.html}{Frenchette}
in New York and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/05/04/dining/alinea-restaurant-chicago-grant-achatz.html}{Alinea}
in Chicago, but his experience at
\href{https://akelarre.net/en/restaurant/}{Akelarre} in San Sebastián,
Spain, is what will drive the cooking at his much-delayed restaurant,
Ernesto's, on the Lower East Side. The restaurant will feature
Basque-inspired food --- whole baby fried mullet, fried cod cheeks, hake
in green sauce, and braised rabbit with walnuts, Rioja-style --- in an
airy, glass-enclosed setting.

Channeling another part of Southern Europe, Cathédrale will offer
French-Mediterranean pissaladière, bouillabaisse and rotisserie chicken
chasseur by the executive chef Jason Hall, who cooked at
\href{https://www.gothambarandgrill.com/}{Gotham Bar and Grill}. The new
place, in the Moxy East Village hotel, has a trim open kitchen glowing
with polished copper, a zigzagging bar and a soaring arched dining room
in a space that reaches deep underground. It's the most dramatic-looking
newcomer this season, with more than 300 seats; such grandeur is typical
of the owners, \href{https://www.taogroup.com/}{Tao Group Hospitality}.
The restaurant's name is meant in part to evoke the
\href{https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/the-fillmore-east-new-york-new-york}{Fillmore
East}, the 1960s music hall nearby that was nicknamed the Church of Rock
`n' Roll. At Cathédrale, the Italian artist Edoardo Tresoldi has
installed an ethereal mesh sculpture titled ``Fillmore'' on the ceiling.

For French food, I'm also excited about the reopening of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/16/dining/frenchette-le-veau-dor.html}{Le
Veau d'Or}, the vintage bauble that is being refreshed by Riad Nasr and
Lee Hanson of Frenchette. Another favorite food group of mine, Middle
Eastern fare will arrive with the opening of Shukette, the latest from
Vicki Freeman, Marc Meyer and Chris Paraskevaides of
\href{https://www.cookshopny.com/}{Cookshop} and Vic's. Ayesha Nurdjaja,
the chef and a partner, will make use of a charcoal grill.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/02/12/dining/christina-tosi-milk-bar.html}{Christina
Tosi}'s Milk Bar chain will establish its flagship in the former John
Dory Oyster Bar, in the Ace Hotel New York. New items will include apple
pie soft-serve with pie-dough crumble and a roll stuffed with eggplant
Parm. The company will also move its cooking classes here from
Williamsburg, Brooklyn. And if I'm eager for the opening of the next
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/02/07/dining/daily-provisions-nyc-restaurant-news.html}{Daily
Provisions} cafe from \href{https://www.ushgnyc.com/}{Union Square
Hospitality Group}, it's because its crullers and an expanded dinner
menu will be a welcome addition to my Upper West Side neighborhood.

When it comes to long experience, it's hard to compete with
\href{http://www.pastadimartino.com/pastificio/homepage-eng.php}{Pastificio
G. Di Martino}, which has been making excellent dry pasta near Naples,
Italy, since 1912. The company is opening a store, a pasta bar and
restaurant in the former Green Table space in Chelsea Market.

Still, there are some genuine newcomers to watch, like Alessandra and
Mario De Benedetti, the first-time restaurateurs opening Il Fiorista.
They recently moved to New York from Northern Italy, where Ms. De
Benedetti was a professor and her husband was in private equity, but
both, now in their 50s, wanted a change of scene where they could work
together. Theirs is a light-filled restaurant with a flower shop in the
front that Ms. De Benedetti will run, with abundant edible flowers
adorning Mediterranean food by the chef,
\href{https://www.chefsfeed.com/experts/1497-garrison-price}{Garrison
Price}, who was at Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria and Cafe Clover.

Opening in the coming week:

\textbf{Canal Street Oysters} 380 Canal Street (West Broadway),
646-448-4032, Sept. 9.

\textbf{Llama San} 359 Avenue of the Americas (Washington Place),
646-490-4422, \href{http://llamasannyc.com/}{llamasannyc.com}. Sept. 5.

Opening later:

(All dates are subject to change)

\textbf{Cathédrale} 112 East 11th Street, September.

\textbf{232 Bleecker} 232 Bleecker Street (Carmine Street),
\href{https://www.232bleecker.com/}{232bleecker.com}, October.

\textbf{Daily Provisions} 375 Amsterdam Avenue (78th Street), September;
also 29 Bedford Street (Downing Street), November.

\textbf{Da Toscano} 24 Minetta Lane (Avenue of the Americas). November.

\textbf{Di Martino Pasta Bar} Chelsea Market, 75 Ninth Avenue (15th
Street), December.

\textbf{Ernesto's} 259 East Broadway (Montgomery Street), late fall.

\textbf{Il Fiorista} 17 West 26th Street, 646-490-8240,
\href{http://ilfioristanyc.com/}{ilfioristanyc.com}, September.

\textbf{Le Veau d'Or} 129 East 60th Street, December.

\textbf{Milk Bar} 1196 Broadway (29th Street), October.

\textbf{Once} 315 Smith Street (Union Street), Carroll Gardens,
Brooklyn. October.

\textbf{Piggyback NYC} 140 West 30th Street, October.

\textbf{Shukette} 230 Ninth Avenue (24th Street), September.

\emph{Follow} \href{https://twitter.com/nytfood}{\emph{NYT Food on
Twitter}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.instagram.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{NYT Cooking on
Instagram}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytcooking/}{\emph{Facebook}}\emph{,}
\href{https://www.youtube.com/nytcooking}{\emph{YouTube}} \emph{and}
\href{https://www.pinterest.com/nytcooking/}{\emph{Pinterest}}\emph{.}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/cooking}{\emph{Get
regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips
and shopping advice}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
