Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/style}{Style}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/style}{Style}\textbar{}The Rise of Evgeny Lebedev

\url{https://nyti.ms/1K2nzPQ}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{the-rise-of-evgeny-lebedev}{%
\section{The Rise of Evgeny Lebedev}\label{the-rise-of-evgeny-lebedev}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/01/01/fashion/01LEDBEDEV/01LEDBEDEV-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Charlie Porter

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 31, 2014
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

To reach Evgeny Lebedev's home takes some planning. Technically, the
Stud House, as it is known, is in London: a private residence on the
grounds of Hampton Court Palace, set in the grasslands of Bushy Park,
where deer have roamed freely since Henry VIII was in residence.

Unless you want to walk a mile to the entry, however, you cannot take
public transit; the only way to get there is by car, and even then the
journey takes two separate codes punched into a GPS unit: one for the
correct turn off the main road, another for the house itself.

``It's a country house in London,'' said Mr. Lebedev, a Russian-born
34-year-old commonly attached in gossip columns to the word
``billionaire.'' But, of course, it's not. The house is, under Mr.
Lebedev's ownership, also a symbol: of the complicated transformation of
London into a nexus of global wealth and power, and the equally
complicated way the British feel about their now international city, and
those who have migrated to it.

It's easy to tar Mr. Lebedev: He has bought his way into the heart of
British royal heritage (he purchased the centuries-old Stud House in
2007 and has just finished four years of complete renovation), media
(Mr. Lebedev is the owner of four British newspapers: The Independent,
The Independent on Sunday, the bite-size offshoot i, and The London
Evening Standard) and culture (as a host of the recent Evening Standard
Theatre Awards, along with Anna Wintour and Christopher Bailey, the
C.E.O. of Burberry, the sponsor).

But then, Mr. Lebedev has also lived in London for two-thirds of his
life and now holds British citizenship. His father, the oligarch and
former K.G.B. agent Alexander Lebedev, co-owns Novaya Gazeta, a rare
Russian liberal paper with the bravery to speak its mind.

And before the younger Mr. Lebedev started his media empire, he studied
art history at Christie's in London. His interests are varied, and his
commitment to them is financial and personal. His friends, and he has
many, would cast him as a young man lucky enough to have the means to
pursue the polymath life of his dreams.

Before the Lebedevs bought the then-loss-making Evening Standard for £1
in 2009 when Evgeny was 29, its theater awards were held at a lunch.
``It felt very much like a business engagement,'' Evgeny Lebedev said.
``People came, got their award and left. I think by far the evening is
much better. When it gets dark, the psyche changes somehow.''

One person apparently impressed by the change is Ms. Wintour, the
artistic director of Condé Nast and the editor of American Vogue, whose
father, Charles Wintour, the former editor of The Evening Standard,
started the awards 60 years ago. ``You can just feel the excitement and
camaraderie in the room,'' Ms. Wintour said.

Mr. Lebedev has been something of a British fascination for the last
five years. To some, a Russian buying a British newspaper was evidence
of national decline. ``I think it's one more example that we are no more
a serious nation,'' said the right-wing establishment journalist
Peregrine Worsthorne, when the Evening Standard sale was announced.

Others were preoccupied with how his father made his billions in late
'90s Russia (banking and gas).

And then there was the gossip: the celebrities Evgeny is said to have
dated --- Joely Richardson, Geri Halliwell --- or the lusciousness of
his thick and perfectly groomed beard.

Indeed, during the theater awards, the presenters Steve Coogan and Rob
Brydon, British comedians who starred together in the Michael
Winterbottom movie ``The Trip,'' made the beard a subject of their
jokes, comparing Mr. Lebedev to a hirsute Action Man doll.

His London social circle includes Ian McKellen, with whom he owns an
East End pub; Kevin Spacey, in his final year as artistic director of
The Old Vic theater; and Nicholas Hytner, the outgoing director of the
National Theatre in London. Patrick Kinmonth, the opera director and
designer, worked with Mr. Lebedev on the refurbishment of the Stud
House.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2015/01/01/fashion/01JPLEBEDEV/01JPLEBEDEV-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``Evgeny loves detail,'' Mr. Kinmonth said. ``He's a perfectionist.''

Witness the house. ``It had last been touched in the '80s,'' said Edward
Hurst, an antiques dealer and interior consultant who was also involved
in the renovation. ``It was looking pretty sad, very much in that beige
rag-rolled style, rather hotel-like.''

Now it includes what Mr. Lebedev calls the Soane Room, inspired by the
lavish interiors of Sir John Soane's Museum in Central London. ``I
nicked this room from there,'' Mr. Lebedev said. ``The notion of the
suspended handkerchief, which is the ceiling, is very much his
invention.''

The room's ceiling also features an oculus: a circular opening in a
dome. Mr. Lebedev's oculus is lined with shards of blue amethyst. Are
there such crystals in the John Soane's?

``I mean, it's not exactly copied,'' Mr. Lebedev said. ``A slight
interpretation.''

``The three of us collaborated all the time,'' Mr. Kinmonth said.
``Evgeny was there saying: `This isn't beautiful enough. Can we make
another suggestion?' He was very involved aesthetically with all the
choices. There are four roundels I had planned to paint as lapis lazuli,
but Evgeny said, `If we want lapis lazuli, why don't we get the real
thing?' '' And so they did.

Mixed up with the antiquities is Mr. Lebedev's collection of
contemporary art. His taste errs toward the bombastic: Two life-size
Antony Gormley sculptures stand sentry in the entrance hall, overlooked
by a Damien Hirst. A ghostly cast of a dress by Anselm Kiefer sits at
the end of the east reception room.

``There's a tension between his art collection and the classic
architecture that I've tried to reinforce and enhance,'' Mr. Kinmonth
said, with some understatement. It is a tension that informs Mr.
Lebedev's life.

Much of him is Old World. He talks of how the Old Vic was almost
``turned into a disco,'' and describes being taken to the theater in
Moscow as a child by his grandfather. ``My parents were very young, so
my grandparents were bringing me up. We went to see `The White Guard' by
Bulgakov, and I remember sitting there vomiting into a plastic bag. I
was 7 or 8. I think I ate some rotten caviar in the morning --- not that
I grew up eating caviar.''

Yet his newspapers are progressive. He has employed the first nonwhite
editor of a national newspaper in Britain: Amol Rajan of the
Independent. Two of his editors are women: Sarah Sands of The Evening
Standard and Lisa Markwell of The Independent on Sunday. His staff is
often unflinchingly young: Mr. Rajan and the i editor Oliver Duff are
both 31.

``They were the people who I felt fitted best to edit those papers,''
Mr. Lebedev said. ``There are still lots of young people who want to
come and work in newspapers.''

In the decline of print, Mr. Lebedev has found a sweet spot through
pricing. His whittled-down version of The Independent, i, is 30 pence
(about 50 cents) each day, compared with £1.40, about \$2, for the main
newspaper. The Evening Standard is free, its revenue derived from
advertising. The paper claims two million readers daily.

Founded in 1986 as a newspaper of disciplined liberal thought, The
Independent has softened over the years but has recently had some of its
bite restored. ``Amol is really taking The Independent back to what it
was,'' Mr. Lebedev said.

The Independent says its online readership is up to 53.3 million unique
users, an increase of 85.7 percent over last year (30.8 percent are in
the United States). Mr. Lebedev plans to open a New York office for The
Independent within the next three months.

``We're really going to focus on the U.S. market,'' Mr. Lebedev said.
``In some ways The Independent is a very American-style newspaper,
because it's very international, very outward-looking, like The New York
Times or Washington Post.''

Does that mean Manhattan is about to get another media mogul expat
resident? ``New York is fabulous,'' Mr. Lebedev said, ``but I feel
living in New York would be a bit too far from the motherland.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
