Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Steven Mnuchin Is Confirmed
as Treasury Secretary

\url{https://nyti.ms/2l9lddt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{steven-mnuchin-is-confirmed-as-treasury-secretary}{%
\section{Steven Mnuchin Is Confirmed as Treasury
Secretary}\label{steven-mnuchin-is-confirmed-as-treasury-secretary}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/14/us/14CONFIRM-sub1/14CONFIRM-1487039516770-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/alan-rappeport}{Alan Rappeport}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 13, 2017
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Senate confirmed
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/30/business/steven-mnuchin-expected-treasury-pick-is-an-outsider-to-public-policy.html}{Steven
T. Mnuchin}, a former Goldman Sachs banker and Hollywood film financier,
to be Treasury secretary on Monday, putting in place a key lieutenant to
President Trump who will help drive the administration's plans to
overhaul the tax code, renegotiate trade deals around the world and
remake financial regulations.

By a vote of 53 to 47, the Senate confirmed Mr. Mnuchin, who was Mr.
Trump's top campaign fund-raiser. During a long debate over
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/19/us/politics/steven-mnuchin-treasury-confirmation-hearing.html}{Mr.
Mnuchin's credentials}, Democrats argued that his experience on Wall
Street exemplified corporate malpractice that led to the 2008 financial
crisis.

The new Treasury secretary will have little time to celebrate. He will
be under pressure to help finalize the Trump administration's tax plan,
accelerate the rollback regulations and raise the government's borrowing
limit. The administration has said it will release a comprehensive plan
to rewrite the tax code in the coming weeks, and it will have to deal
with the debt ceiling next month.

While Mr. Mnuchin's financial acumen has been praised by Mr. Trump and
Republicans in Congress, Democrats have argued forcefully that he is not
up to the job. They have painted him as a symbol of everything that is
wrong with corporate America.

``He was part of the cadre of corporate raiders that brought our economy
to its knees,'' Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said on
the Senate floor on Monday.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/02/13/us/politics/steven-mnuchin-confirmation-vote.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2017/02/13/us/politics/steven-mnuchin-confirmation-vote-1487027799345/steven-mnuchin-confirmation-vote-1487027799345-thumbLarge-v3.png}

\hypertarget{how-senators-voted-on-steven-mnuchin-for-treasury-secretary}{%
\subsection{How Senators Voted on Steven Mnuchin for Treasury
Secretary}\label{how-senators-voted-on-steven-mnuchin-for-treasury-secretary}}

The Senate voted to confirm Steven Mnuchin as Treasury secretary.

There was also no shortage of name-calling. Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat
of Oregon, referred to Mr. Mnuchin at the ``foreclosure king.'' Senator
Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, described him as ``greedy'' and
``unethical'' while arguing the case against him.

``Whether illegally foreclosing on thousands of families, skirting the
law with offshore tax havens or helping design tactics that contributed
to the 2008 financial crisis, Steve Mnuchin made a career --- and
millions of dollars --- pioneering increasingly deceptive and predatory
ways to rob hardworking Americans of their savings and homes,'' Ms.
Duckworth said.

At a prickly confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee
last month, Mr. Mnuchin was scolded by Democrats for
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/19/us/politics/steven-mnuchin-treasury-secretary-nominee-assets-confirmation.html}{failing
to disclose nearly \$100 million in assets} and for not revealing his
role as a director of an investment fund based in the Cayman Islands, a
well-known tax haven.

After the hearing, Democrats on the committee accused Mr. Mnuchin of
lying for saying that OneWest Bank had not engaged in the controversial
foreclosure practice of ``robo-signing'' when he was its chief
executive. The Democrats on the committee twice boycotted a vote on his
confirmation, leading Republicans to breach protocol and push Mr.
Mnuchin's vote to the full Senate on their own.

Just one Democrat, Senator of Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, broke
with his party and supported Mr. Mnuchin. In a sign of the backlash that
Democrats will face for siding with any part of Mr. Trump's agenda, the
Progressive Change Campaign Committee warned that Mr. Manchin's vote
would not go unnoticed.

``We will ensure that Joe Manchin hears from his West Virginia
constituents who disapprove of his voting with Wall Street against
working families,'' the group said in a statement after the vote.

For Republicans, the resistance was chalked up to political theater.

On Monday, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Republican chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, accused Democrats of making Mr. Mnuchin a
political pawn and described their concerns as a stall tactic.

``Under any objective standard, Mr. Mnuchin has ample experience,
credentials and qualifications for this important position,'' Mr. Hatch
said. ``My colleagues have done all they can under the rules --- even to
the point of casting aside some longstanding customs and traditions of
the Senate --- in order to delay his confirmation.''

While Mr. Mnuchin struggled to show fluency with some aspects of the job
during his confirmation hearing, Republicans and Democrats generally
agreed that he was well versed on economic issues. He also struck a more
moderate tone than Mr. Trump on issues such as trade and dealing with
China. And Mr. Mnuchin left some experts dumbfounded after suggesting
that ``there would be no absolute tax cut for the upper class'' --- a
promise that appears to be at odds with plans presented by Mr. Trump and
House Republicans.

Mr. Mnuchin was not the only member of Mr. Trump's cabinet to be
confirmed on Monday night. The Senate also voted in favor of David
Shulkin to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs. A holdover from the
Obama administration, Dr. Shulkin is currently the department's under
secretary of health and was approved by a unanimous vote.

Mr. Mnuchin was the latest member of Mr. Trump's cabinet to edge through
the confirmation process on a largely party-line vote. Last week,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/10/us/politics/tom-price-health-and-human-services.html}{Tom
Price was approved} as secretary of health and human services and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/02/07/us/politics/betsy-devos-education-secretary-confirmed.html}{Betsy
DeVos narrowly won confirmation} to lead the Education Department.

Things could become more complicated on Thursday, however, when Andrew
Puzder, Mr. Trump's choice for labor secretary, faces a committee
hearing. Several Republicans on the committee have declined to support
Mr. Puzder, a fast-food chain executive who critics say promotes
policies that are harmful to workers.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
