Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Trump, Citing Pandemic, Moves
to Weaken Two Key Environmental Protections

\url{https://nyti.ms/2UbzhDM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-citing-pandemic-moves-to-weaken-two-key-environmental-protections-}{%
\section{Trump, Citing Pandemic, Moves to Weaken Two Key Environmental
Protections
}\label{trump-citing-pandemic-moves-to-weaken-two-key-environmental-protections-}}

Twin environmental actions set for Thursday underscored the president's
push to roll back regulations as the coronavirus crisis continues.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/04/climate/04CLI-DEREGULATIONS1/04CLI-DEREGULATIONS1-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/10/03/multimedia/author-coral-davenport/author-coral-davenport-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/coral-davenport}{Coral
Davenport} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Trump administration, in twin actions to curb
environmental regulations, moved on Thursday to temporarily speed the
construction of energy projects and to permanently weaken federal
authority to issue stringent clean air and climate change rules.

President Trump signed an executive order that calls on agencies to
waive required environmental reviews of infrastructure projects to be
built during the pandemic-driven economic crisis. At the same time, the
Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a new rule that changes the
way the agency uses cost-benefit analyses to enact Clean Air Act
regulations, effectively limiting the strength of future air pollution
controls.

Together, the actions signal that Mr. Trump intends to speed up his
efforts to dismantle environmental regulations as the nation battles the
coronavirus and a wave of unrest protesting the deaths of black
Americans in Georgia, Minnesota and Kentucky. They will also help define
the stakes in the 2020 presidential election, since neither effort would
likely survive a Democratic victory.

By changing the way the government weighs the value of the public health
benefits, Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A. administrator, would allow the
agency to justify weakening clean air and climate change regulations
with economic arguments.

Mr. Trump's executive order would use ``emergency authorities'' to waive
parts of the cornerstone National Environmental Policy Act to spur the
construction of highways, pipelines and other infrastructure projects.
Environmental activists and lawyers questioned the legality of the move
and accused the administration of using the coronavirus pandemic and
national unrest to speed up actions that have been moving slowly through
the regulatory process.

``When it comes to trying to unravel this nations' environmental
protection laws, this administration never sleeps,'' said Richard
Lazarus, professor of environmental law at Harvard University.

Fossil fuel companies have long asserted that the economic formulas used
by the federal government to justify pollution controls have unfairly
harmed them. During the Obama administration, the E.P.A. drafted a rule
to limit toxic mercury pollution from power plants, estimating that it
would cost the electric utility industry \$9.6 billion a year. But an
initial analysis found that reducing mercury would save just \$6 million
annually in health costs.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/04/science/04CLI-DEREGULATIONS2/merlin_172675713_8f9251ba-0ea0-49b5-8dfb-0ffee2d4c442-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

To justify that stark imbalance, the Obama administration found an
additional \$80 billion in health ``co-benefits'' from the incidental
reduction of soot and nitrogen oxide that would occur as side effects of
controlling mercury.

Last month, the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/16/climate/epa-mercury-coal.html}{completed
a rollback of that Obama mercury rule} that discounted such co-benefits.

Now, Mr. Wheeler has proposed extending that measure by eliminating or
reducing the emphasis on co-benefits across all new Clean Air Act
regulations. This year, he is expected to propose a similar revamp of
the cost-benefit formulas that govern clean water and chemical safety
regulations.

Mr. Wheeler said that the E.P.A. would still calculate the economic
value of such co-benefits. But he said those calculation would no longer
be used in defending rules. ``Co-benefits would not be used to justify
the rule,'' he said in a telephone call with reporters, noting
specifically that the change would mean that regulations like the
Obama-era mercury rule would no longer be defensible.

``The way the Obama administration used co-benefits to calculate the
mercury rule and other rules --- they were playing a shell game,'' he
said.

Historically, the economic costs of regulating pollutants such as
mercury or planet-warming greenhouse gases often do outweigh the direct
benefits. But such rules also tend to lower emissions of another deadly
pollutant: fine industrial soot, also known as particulate matter.

By reducing emissions of the tiny, lung damaging particles known as PM
2.5, clean air rules that are primarily aimed at controlling different
pollutants can have the effect of saving thousands of lives by lowering
rates of asthma and lung disease. And, last month, researchers at
Harvard \href{https://projects.iq.harvard.edu/covid-pm}{released the
first nationwide study}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/07/climate/air-pollution-coronavirus-covid.html}{linking
long-term exposure to PM 2.5 and Covid-19 death rates.}

``At a time when more than 100,000 Americas have died from Covid and we
know about this connection, the Trump administration is going to put in
place some analytical techniques that will make it easier for them to
kill more Americans,'' said Richard Revesz, an expert on environmental
law at New York University.

Mr. Revesz and others said the change also defies the intent of the
landmark Clean Air Act of 1970.

``These economic cost-benefit analyses have been an important driver of
Clean Air Act regulations for 40 years,'' said Richard Morgenstern, a
former E.P.A. official who served from the Reagan to the Clinton
administrations. ``What this rule is doing is altering the math in such
a way to potentially downplay the economic benefit to public health, so
they are justified in writing weaker rules in the future.''

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:37 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#a-marist-poll-shows-biden-widening-his-lead-in-pennsylvania}{A
Marist poll shows Biden widening his lead in
Pennsylvania.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 10:02 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#texass-system-for-verifying-signatures-on-mail-in-ballots-is-unconstitutional-a-judge-ruled}{Texas's
system for verifying signatures on mail-in ballots is unconstitutional,
a judge
ruled.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{}

Sept. 9, 2020, 8:51 a.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden\#democrats-worry-about-a-partisan-slant-at-the-postal-service-where-trump-allies-dominate-the-board}{Democrats
worry about a partisan slant at the Postal Service, where Trump allies
dominate the board.}

Allies of Mr. Trump applauded that prospect.

``This helps the Trump agenda because it limits E.P.A.'s freedom to push
out new regulations,'' said Steven J. Milloy, a member of Mr. Trump's
E.P.A. transition team and author of the book ``Scare Pollution: Why and
How to Fix the E.P.A.''

The fossil fuel industry expressed support for the move. ``Through
administrator Wheeler's proposal, E.P.A. must now be consistent and
transparent with the data and analysis used to justify decisions in its
rule-making efforts,'' said Anne Bradbury, chief executive of the
American Exploration and Production Council, which represents oil and
gas companies. ``These reforms help to avoid federal rules that could
otherwise hurt American workers, businesses and our economy.''

The future of Thursday's actions will depend on the outcome of this
November's election. If former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
defeats Mr. Trump and is inaugurated before the draft rule is made
final, a process that can easily take up to a year, his administration
could simply discard the E.P.A. proposal. If the rule is made final, but
Mr. Biden wins the White House and Democrats take control of the Senate,
they could use the Congressional Review Act to quickly undo the
Trump-era regulation.

The act, almost never used until Mr. Trump took office, allows Congress
to nullify any regulation that has been in place for fewer than 60
legislative days.

Thursday's executive order would be even more vulnerable, since it could
be undone with a new president's signature.

Citing more than 41 million people out of work because of Covid-19, Mr.
Trump said ``Without intervention, the United States faces the
likelihood of a potentially protracted economic recovery with persistent
high unemployment.''

He said the need for his administration's deregulatory agenda was ``all
the more acute now'' and claimed regulatory delays would continue to
keep millions of Americans out of work.

The order calls on the secretaries of the Transportation Department, the
Department of Agriculture, the Department of the Interior, the Defense
Department and the head of the Army Corps of Engineers, to ``use all
relevant emergency and other authorities'' to expedite infrastructure
projects. They must report back to the White House within 30 days with a
list of all projects that have been fast-tracked.

Image

The offices of the Environmental Protection Agency, left, and the Trump
International Hotel, right, in Washington.Credit...Alyssa Schukar for
The New York Times

Mr. Lazarus, the Harvard professor, noted that the environmental policy
act provides for federal agencies to consult with the White House on
whether ``emergency circumstances'' make it necessary to waive
requirements, but does not give power to waive environmental
requirements.

``The president's assertion of authority to waive the application of
environmental laws in the way described seems wholly untethered from
law,'' Mr. Lazarus said.

Democratic leaders said the administration's actions would be
particularly harmful to communities of color.

``By signing this executive order, Donald Trump is muzzling the voice of
environmental justice communities, and continues to make clear his total
disregard for those speaking out and fighting for racial justice and a
sustainable environment,'' Senator Chuck Schumer of New York said in a
statement.

The Trump administration aimed to dismantle parts of the National
Environmental Policy Act long before the coronavirus pandemic hit the
United States. In January Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/09/climate/trump-nepa-environment.html}{released
a plan to weaken the law}. That measure, which is expected to be
finalized this month, would no longer take climate change into account
when federal agencies weigh the environmental consequences of
infrastructure projects.

The Club for Growth, a free-market group, applauded the move and called
it ``bold action'' to ``get our country back to work faster.'' The
Center for Biological Diversity, an environmental group, accused the
administration of ``exploiting the pandemic.''

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 9, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden heads today to Michigan, a battleground state where
    President Trump has resumed advertising ahead of a visit there on
    Thursday.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Read
    live updates}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
