Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Sanders Seizes Lead in
Volatile Iowa Race, Times Poll Finds

\url{https://nyti.ms/38D9itp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{D.N.C.
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-presidential-nomination-dnc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  Speech}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Calendar}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{sanders-seizes-lead-in-volatile-iowa-race-times-poll-finds}{%
\section{Sanders Seizes Lead in Volatile Iowa Race, Times Poll
Finds}\label{sanders-seizes-lead-in-volatile-iowa-race-times-poll-finds}}

With solid support from liberals, Mr. Sanders appears to be peaking just
as the caucuses approach. But many Iowa voters said they could still
change their mind.

Which of these Democrats would be your first choice in the Iowa
caucuses?

Sanders

25\%

Buttigieg

18\%

Biden

17\%

Warren

15\%

Klobuchar

8\%

Steyer

3\%

Yang

3\%

Which of these Democrats would be your first choice in the Iowa
caucuses?

Sanders

25\%

Buttigieg

18\%

Biden

17\%

Warren

15\%

Klobuchar

8\%

Steyer

3\%

Yang

3\%

Note: Candidates who polled below 3 percent are not shown in this chart.

Source: New York Times/Siena College poll conducted Jan. 20-23.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/06/multimedia/author-jonathan-martin/author-jonathan-martin-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jonathan-martin}{Jonathan
Martin} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 25, 2020Updated Feb. 2, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

DES MOINES --- Senator Bernie Sanders has opened up a lead in Iowa just
over a week before the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/iowa-democratic-caucus-01-26/}{Democratic
caucuses}, consolidating support from liberals and benefiting from
divisions among more moderate presidential candidates who are clustered
behind him, according to a New York Times/Siena College poll of likely
caucusgoers.

Mr. Sanders has gained six points since the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html}{last
Times-Siena survey}, in late October, and is now capturing 25 percent of
the vote in Iowa. Pete Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Ind.,
and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. have remained stagnant
since the fall, with Mr. Buttigieg capturing 18 percent and Mr. Biden 17
percent.

The rise of Mr. Sanders has come at the expense of his fellow
progressive, Senator Elizabeth Warren: she dropped from 22 percent in
the October poll, enough to lead the field, to 15 percent in this
survey. Senator Amy Klobuchar, who is garnering 8 percent, is the only
other candidate approaching double digits.

The changing fortunes of the leading candidates underscores the volatile
nature of the primary after more than a year of campaigning, as voters
wrestle with which candidate can defeat President Trump. Despite the
ascent of Mr. Sanders, a self-described democratic socialist, the poll
also highlighted the combined appeal of the centrists: 55 percent of
those surveyed said they preferred a standard-bearer who is ``more
moderate than most Democrats.'' Just 38 percent said they wanted one who
is ``more liberal than most Democrats.''

As the strength of the other leading candidates has ebbed and flowed,
Mr. Sanders, making his second run for the White House, appears to be
peaking at the right time. This month was the first time he has finished
atop a poll
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/iowa-democratic-caucus-01-26/}{in
Iowa}, after also leading
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/10/us/politics/des-moines-register-poll.html}{a
Des Moines Register-CNN survey} two weeks ago. The Times-Siena poll's
margin of error was plus or minus 4.8 percentage points.

Which of the two types of Democrats would you be likely to support? A
Democrat who \ldots{}

Brings politics in

Washington back to

normal

Promises fundamental

systematic change to

American society

42\%

51\%

You agreed with most

on the issues

Has the best chance to

beat President Trump

48\%

49\%

Is more moderate than

most Democrats

Is more liberal than

most Democrats

55\%

38\%

Which of the two types of Democrats would you be likely to support? A
Democrat who \ldots{}

Brings politics in Washington

back to normal

Promises fundamental systematic change

to American society

42\%

51\%

You agreed with most on the issues

Has the best chance to beat President Trump

48\%

49\%

Is more moderate than most Democrats

Is more liberal than most Democrats

55\%

38\%

Source: New York Times/Siena College poll conducted Jan. 20-23.

A victory by Mr. Sanders in Iowa, where he suffered
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2016/results/primaries/iowa}{a
narrow loss} to Hillary Clinton four years ago, would represent a
remarkable comeback for a 78-year-old candidate whose
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/04/us/politics/bernie-sanders-hospital.html}{heart
attack in October} threatened to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/07/us/politics/bernie-sanders-heart-attack.html}{upend
his candidacy}. It would also create a moment of high anxiety for
establishment-aligned Democrats who are deeply alarmed about a potential
Sanders nomination.

Should he prevail in Iowa and face a similarly fractured field of
mainstream rivals in New Hampshire, where he also currently leads in the
polls, Mr. Sanders could be difficult to slow.

Several voters who backed Mr. Sanders cited the consistency of his
positions over the course of his career, and their ideological alignment
with his views.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{7h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#night-3-featured-more-policy-a-focus-on-women-and-a-full-throated-rejection-of-trump-by-his-predecessor}{Night
3 featured more policy, a focus on women and a full-throated rejection
of Trump by his predecessor.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#trump-live-tweeted-obamas-speech-tonight-hell-appear-on-fox-news-right-before-bidens-tomorrow}{Trump
live-tweeted Obama's speech tonight. He'll appear on Fox News right
before Biden's tomorrow.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{9h
ago}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#advocates-for-domestic-violence-survivors-praised-biden-in-a-video}{Advocates
for domestic violence survivors praised Biden in a video.}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/19/us/dnc-convention-election?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

``Bernie's authentic,'' said Austin Sturch, 25, of Evansdale, adding,
``Pretty much everything he's saying --- I can't put it better than he
can.''

Still, much here remains uncertain. Iowa voters are famous for settling
on a candidate late, and this year is no different; Mr. Sanders, along
with the other senators in the race, is
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/us/politics/trump-impeachment-democratic-candidates.html}{pinned
down in Washington during Mr. Trump's impeachment trial} and unable to
campaign here on weekdays.

And the final results could turn on two factors that will not be known
until caucus night: the size and composition of the electorate, and the
preferences of voters whose first choices are eliminated because of the
arcane caucus rules.

If the other leading candidates finish bunched together on caucus night
on Feb. 3, it is unlikely any of them will drop out of the race after
Iowa. Each of the three top hopefuls trailing Mr. Sanders has the money
to compete in New Hampshire, which is just a week later.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/02/03/us/politics/28hwgh-iowa-1-print/28hwgh-iowa-1-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

And should no clear moderate alternative to Mr. Sanders emerge from the
early nominating states, the self-financing Michael R. Bloomberg, who
has already spent more than \$260 million on advertising and hired more
than 1,000 staff members, is awaiting the field on Super Tuesday in
early March.

But first is Iowa, where the race remains up for grabs to an unusual
degree so late in the race: In the Times poll, nearly 40 percent of
voters said they could still be persuaded to caucus for a different
candidate.

Mr. Sanders, however, has some of the most committed supporters in the
race and, significantly, his advantage with Iowa Democrats does not ebb
when the field is narrowed to only the top four candidates. The Vermont
senator still leads by seven points in that scenario, according to the
survey, capturing 30 percent of the vote while Mr. Biden and Mr.
Buttigieg both win 23 percent and Ms. Warren garners 19 percent.

These results are important because of how the caucuses work in Iowa.
Candidates must receive 15 percent support in a precinct to reach what
is called viability, meaning they are eligible to win delegates. If a
candidate falls short of that number, his or her supporters can either
leave the caucus or support better-performing contenders for the second
and final vote of the evening. So voters' second choices can prove
crucial.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/01/24/us/politics/presidential-primary-election-guide.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/01/22/us/politics/primary-election-guide-promostill/primary-election-guide-promostill-articleLarge.jpg}

\hypertarget{ready-set-vote-heres-everything-you-need-to-know-for-the-2020-primaries}{%
\subsection{Ready, Set, Vote: Here's Everything You Need to Know for the
2020
Primaries}\label{ready-set-vote-heres-everything-you-need-to-know-for-the-2020-primaries}}

The Iowa caucuses are around the corner. As you get ready for primary
season, take a look at our cheat sheet on the race.

Ms. Warren, according to the poll, is the top second-choice preference
of caucusgoers, which could lift her candidacy after the initial vote.
But that is in part because she is the preferred alternative for those
who support Mr. Sanders, who will most likely meet the viability
threshold in nearly all of the caucuses.

Ms. Warren received a boost Saturday night, however,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/25/us/politics/elizabeth-warren-des-moines-register-endorsement.html?searchResultPosition=1}{when
she won the endorsement}of Iowa's largest and most influential
newspaper, the Des Moines Register.

Ms. Klobuchar's supporters could play the most crucial role, though,
should she fail to achieve 15 percent in most precincts. When voters
were asked whom they would support if they were left with only four
choices --- Mr. Sanders, Mr. Buttigieg, Mr. Biden and Ms. Warren --- Mr.
Biden was the overwhelming favorite of Ms. Klobuchar's backers. He
received 55 percent of them in this scenario while Ms. Warren received
18 percent.

One troubling sign for Mr. Sanders came in an ideological matchup with
Mr. Trump. In The Times/Siena poll, 56 percent of caucusgoers said they
thought a democratic socialist would have a harder rather than an easier
time defeating the president --- a higher number than those who said the
same about a woman, a gay candidate or one over 75.

In fact, among general election voters in Iowa, a state he carried
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/elections/2016/results/iowa-president-clinton-trump}{by
nearly 10 points} four years ago, Mr. Trump defeated all of the top five
candidates as well as Mr. Bloomberg in head-to-head matchups. He bested
Mr. Sanders, 48 percent to 42 percent.

If the 2020 U.S. presidential election were held today, who would you
vote for?

Trump

45\%

Buttigieg

44\%

Trump

46\%

Biden

44\%

Trump

46\%

Klobuchar

41\%

Trump

47\%

Warren

42\%

Trump

48\%

Sanders

42\%

Trump

47\%

Bloomberg

39\%

If the 2020 U.S. presidential election were held today, who would you
vote for?

Trump

45\%

Buttigieg

44\%

Trump

46\%

Biden

44\%

Trump

46\%

Klobuchar

41\%

Trump

47\%

Warren

42\%

Trump

48\%

Sanders

42\%

Trump

47\%

Bloomberg

39\%

Source: New York Times/Siena College poll conducted Jan. 20-23.

More broadly, the survey of Iowa Democrats showcases the same
generational and ideological divisions that the party is grappling with
nationally --- and helps illuminate why voters are so deeply divided
over whom to support.

Mr. Sanders leads with Iowa voters under 30, taking 40 percent of that
bloc, which is more than double his nearest competitor in the
demographic. But he is winning only 9 percent among voters 65 and older.
At the same time, Mr. Biden is capturing 32 percent of the vote among
those over 65 but receiving just 10 among the youngest Iowa caucusgoers.

Mr. Sanders's advantage owes largely to voters who align with his
progressive agenda: 43 percent of caucusgoers who call themselves ``very
liberal'' are supporting his bid, well above the next closest candidate.

At the same time, those voters who are closer to the political center
are split. Among moderate or conservative caucusgoers, 25 percent are
backing Mr. Biden, 21 percent are for Mr. Buttigieg and 12 percent are
with Ms. Klobuchar. Among those who say they are ``somewhat
conservative,'' Ms. Klobuchar garners 28 percent, Mr. Buttigieg 17
percent and Mr. Biden 15 percent.

Of course, voters here do not always fall neatly along ideological
lines. Shawn Reynolds, a 68-year-old retired art teacher from Des
Moines, said she supported Ms. Warren but Mr. Biden was her second
choice.

``I'm really on the fence I guess between the two of them,'' said Ms.
Reynolds, adding that she planned to caucus for Ms. Warren and had even
volunteered to help set up the Warren corner at her precinct on caucus
night despite her ambivalence.

If you support one of the following candidates as your first choice, who
among these four do you think has the best chance of defeating President
Trump?

SUPPORT:

Biden

BEST CHANCE:

Warren 1\%

Biden

Sanders

82\%

7\%

Buttigieg 1\%

SUPPORT:

Sanders

BEST CHANCE:

Warren 2\%

Sanders

Biden

79\%

10\%

Buttigieg 1\%

SUPPORT:

Warren

BEST CHANCE:

Warren

Biden

Sanders

51\%

19\%

10\%

Buttigieg 2\%

SUPPORT:

Buttigieg

BEST CHANCE:

Buttigieg

Biden

Sanders 4\%

48\%

34\%

Warren 2\%

If you support one of the following candidates as your first choice, who
among these four do you think has the best chance of defeating President
Trump?

BEST CHANCE:

SUPPORT:

Biden

Biden

Sanders

Warren 1\%

82\%

7\%

Buttigieg 1\%

SUPPORT:

BEST CHANCE:

Sanders

Biden

Warren 2\%

Sanders

79\%

10\%

Buttigieg 1\%

SUPPORT:

BEST CHANCE:

Warren

Warren

Biden

Sanders

51\%

19\%

10\%

Buttigieg 2\%

BEST CHANCE:

SUPPORT:

Buttigieg

Biden

Sanders 4\%

Buttigieg

48\%

34\%

Warren 2\%

Source: New York Times/Siena College poll conducted Jan. 20-23.

There were several signs in the poll illustrating why Ms. Warren has
fallen in Iowa since her peak last fall.

Many voters in Iowa are fixated on elevating a candidate who can beat
Mr. Trump, but 38 percent of likely caucusgoers said they thought a
female candidate would have a harder time beating Mr. Trump. And only 51
percent of those who indicated Ms. Warren was their first choice said
she would be the best at beating Mr. Trump.

And while Ms. Warren's support fell across nearly all groups in the
poll, her decline was particularly pronounced among young voters. Just
16 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds supported her in the poll, down from
38 percent in October.

Ms. Warren has also been trying to quell concerns about her sweeping
agenda --- particularly ``Medicare for all'' --- and its impact on the
general election. Those efforts appear to have hurt her with some voters
here. The poll showed that only 18 percent of likely caucusgoers think
she would be best at improving health care ---~compared to 32 percent
for Mr. Sanders.

Those findings bode well for Mr. Sanders. If Ms. Warren does not regain
her footing, he can continue to solidify the backing of progressive
voters who say they want fundamental change.

Another advantage for Mr. Sanders is that he has retained many of his
supporters from 2016, when his near-victory against Mrs. Clinton turned
him into a credible threat for the Democratic nomination: 48 percent of
likely caucusgoers who said Mr. Sanders was their first choice said they
had caucused for him last time, too.

Among those voters was Deborah Marlin, a 54-year-old small business
owner from Clarinda, who said her top issues were Medicare for all and
student debt.

``He gives people a voice who have not had a voice before,'' she said.
``He sees the unseen such as people with disabilities, low-income
workers, people with medical conditions. He sees the younger people in
financial distress.''

Asked whether she had a second-choice candidate, she said she did not.
``I'm a `Bernie-or-Bust,''' she said.

Nate Cohn and Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting.

\emph{The New York Times/Siena College Research Institute survey of
1,689 registered voters in Iowa, including 584 Democratic caucusgoers,
was conducted from Jan. 20 to Jan. 23. The margin of error due to
sampling is plus or minus 4.8 percentage points for the Democratic
caucus electorate and plus or minus 2.8 percentage points for registered
voters.}

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated Aug. 20, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{convention-recap}{%
  \subsection{Convention Recap}\label{convention-recap}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Joe Biden accepted the Democratic nomination, urging Americans to
    have faith that they could
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/Joe-Biden-accepts-democratic-nomination.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{``overcome
    this season of darkness.''}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{news-analysis}{%
  \subsection{News Analysis}\label{news-analysis}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Looming over Mr. Biden's nomination was the ever-present shadow of
    another man who's poised to dominate the campaign:
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/20/us/politics/biden-dnc-speech-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Donald
    J. Trump}.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
