<div class="super-t-logo">

[![Logo](//theme.zdassets.com/theme_assets/968999/51caa74a53a7c7d938c23ab40a5941798a5ccb79.svg)
HOME](https://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion "Go to the New York Times homepage")

</div>

<div class="header-links">

[Help](/hc/en-us) |
[Account](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/seg/) |
[Contact](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)

</div>

<div data-role="main">

<div class="container-divider">

</div>

<div class="container">

1.  [Help](/hc/en-us)
2.  [Contact The New York
    Times](/hc/en-us/categories/115002052428-Contact-The-New-York-Times)
3.  [Contact The New York
    Times](/hc/en-us/sections/115003860627-Contact-The-New-York-Times)

<div id="article-container" class="article-container">

# Contact us

<div class="UH-layout">

<div class="section UH-card UH-layout-main">

<div class="article-body">

<div class="page-container">

<div class="body-container">

<div id="main-content" class="page-body">

<div class="centered-column">

## Contact Our Newsroom

### Send a Confidential News Tip

If you have a confidential news tip, you can reach us through [tools
that will help protect your
anonymity](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/tips).

### Report a Correction or Share Feedback

To report errors regarding our coverage [email us at
nytnews@NYTimes.com](mailto:nytnews@NYTimes.com) or leave a message at
844-NYTNEWS (844-698-6397). To send feedback or story ideas to the
newsroom, [visit the Reader
Center](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/15/homepage/contact-newsroom.html).
For customer service questions, please refer below to the Customer Care
section.

### Submit to Our Editorial Pages

  - [Send a Letter to the
    Editor.](/hc/en-us/articles/115014925288-How-to-Submit-a-Letter-to-the-Editor)
  - [Submit an
    Op-Ed.](/hc/en-us/articles/115014809107-How-to-Submit-an-Op-Ed-Article)
  - [Submit an Opinion
    Video.](/hc/en-us/articles/115014925188-How-to-Submit-an-Op-Doc)

## Contact Customer Care

### Manage Your Subscription

The best way to manage your New York Times subscription is online, by
visiting
[NYTimes.com/mya<span>ccoun</span>](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/myaccount)<span>[t](http://nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/myaccount).</span>

### Manage Your Home Delivery Service

On your account page, you can:

  - [Suspend delivery of your
    paper](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/seg/subscription/homedelivery/suspend-delivery)
  - [Report an issue with your
    delivery](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/seg/subscription/homedelivery/delivery-problem)
  - [Modify or change your delivery
    address](https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/change-delivery-address)

### General Contact Channels

<div class="condensed-paragraph">

Ask us a question via chat.

If you are on a desktop computer, you may see this option at the top
right of this page. If you are on a mobile device, scroll to the bottom
of this page to locate the Chat button.

</div>

<div class="condensed-paragraph">

Text Customer Care at 855-419-6348.

Standard messaging rates may apply. Your information is used to respond
to your text message only.

</div>

<div class="condensed-paragraph">

If you are in the United States, call us at 800-NYTIMES (800-698-4637).

Our hours are 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. E.T. Monday - Friday, and 7 a.m. to 3
p.m. E.T. Saturday - Sunday.

</div>

If you are outside of the United States, please see our [international
contact
information](/hc/en-us/articles/115014792927-International-contact-info).

<div class="condensed-paragraph">

[Email Customer Care](/hc/en-us/requests/new).

</div>

### Manage Corporate Account or Higher Education

If you are inquiring about a new corporate digital subscription, please
visit us [here](http://nytimesgroupsubscriptions.com/). If you have an
existing corporate digital group subscription, you can reach our team
at <nytcorpteam@NYTimes.com>.

Representatives of colleges and universities should visit us
[here](https://nytimesgroupsubscriptions.com/?=customer-care), or email
<edu@NYTimes.com>.

Our mailing address is The New York Times Company, 620 Eighth Avenue,
New York, NY 10018.

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="section UH-help-card">

#### Can't find what you're looking for?

Review our Help topics or chat with one of our Customer Care advocates.

<div id="Help_New">

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="article-return-to-top">

[Return to top<span class="icon-arrow-up"></span>](#article-container)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<div class="footer-inner">

  - [© <span id="copyrightYear" itemprop="copyrightYear"></span>
    <span itemprop="copyrightHolder provider sourceOrganization" itemtype="http://schema.org/Organization" itemid="http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion">
      <span itemprop="name">The New York Times Company</span>
    </span>](http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/copyright/copyright-notice.html)

<!-- end list -->

  - [Contact
    Us](https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  - [Work with us](http://www.nytco.com/careers)
  - [Advertise](http://nytmediakit.com/)
  - [Your Ad
    Choices](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/privacy/policy/privacy-policy.html#pp)
  - [Privacy](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy)
  - [Terms of
    Service](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html)
  - [Terms of
    Sale](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/content/help/rights/sale/terms-of-sale.html)
  - [Sitemap](http://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion)
  - [Help](/hc/en-us)
  - [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscriptions/Multiproduct/lp5558.html?campaignId=37WXW)

</div>
