Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Fauci Back at the White
House, a Day After Trump Aides Tried to Undermine Him

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZnRP6D}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/02/us/covid-college-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{College
  Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fauci-back-at-the-white-house-a-day-after-trump-aides-tried-to-undermine-him}{%
\section{Fauci Back at the White House, a Day After Trump Aides Tried to
Undermine
Him}\label{fauci-back-at-the-white-house-a-day-after-trump-aides-tried-to-undermine-him}}

The visit underscored a reality for both the president and his most
prominent coronavirus adviser: They are stuck with each other.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/13/us/politics/13dc-virus-fauci/merlin_171696780_ed9e8a48-95c8-4311-b8f3-43192400a8e8-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/author-michael-d-shear/author-michael-d-shear-thumbLarge-v2.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/noah-weiland}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/07/23/reader-center/author-noah-weiland/author-noah-weiland-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/michael-d-shear}{Michael D. Shear}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/noah-weiland}{Noah Weiland}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 13, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- A day after President Trump's press office tried to
undermine the reputation of the nation's top infectious disease expert
with an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/12/us/politics/fauci-trump-coronavirus.html}{anonymously
attributed list} of what it said were his misjudgments in the early days
of the coronavirus, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci returned to the White House on
Monday.

The visit underscored a reality for both men: They are stuck with each
other.

Dr. Fauci --- who has not had direct contact with the president in more
than five weeks even as the number of Americans with Covid-19, the
disease caused by the coronavirus, has risen sharply in the Southwest
--- slipped back into the West Wing to meet with Mark Meadows, the White
House chief of staff, while his allies denounced what they called a
meanspirited and misguided effort by the White House to smear him.

White House officials declined to comment on what was discussed in the
conversation between Mr. Meadows, who has long expressed skepticism
about the conclusions of the nation's public health experts, and Dr.
Fauci, though one official called it a good conversation and said they
continued to have a positive relationship.

For his part, Mr. Trump made no effort to sugarcoat his rift with Dr.
Fauci, declining to repudiate the criticism of him from his staff and
saying that ``I don't always agree with him.'' But the president also
implicitly acknowledged how unlikely he was to get rid of Dr. Fauci,
calling him ``a very nice person'' and saying that ``I like him
personally.''

Mr. Trump could formally remove Dr. Fauci from the official coronavirus
task force, but that would be a relatively meaningless step because it
no longer serves as the nerve-center of a pandemic response that the
Trump administration has pushed governors to take responsibility for.

As the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Fauci is a career
civil servant. Firing him would require a finding of cause of
malfeasance, and would most likely end up tied up in lengthy appeals,
though the president could still seek to sideline Dr. Fauci in
meaningless work, transfer him to another location or cut his budget in
an attempt to get him to resign.

The anonymous accusations against Dr. Fauci were ``enormously sad and
totally inappropriate,'' said Dr. Margaret Hamburg, a former special
assistant to Dr. Fauci who served as commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration under President Barack Obama. ``Never have we needed his
expertise and focus more than right now. Why would we both undermine him
and his ability to do his important work?''

Dr. Fauci is also a public figure unlike any other health official in
the federal government, well known for his decades organizing its
responses to diseases like AIDS and Ebola. In his office in Building 31
on the campus of the N.I.H., he keeps a wall of photographs of himself
with celebrities and presidents.

Over time, he has learned to navigate the collisions between politics
and health. That has never been more difficult than in this
administration, but Dr. Fauci has recognized that to remain effective,
he must navigate Mr. Trump's mercurial moods and contempt for expertise.
The two once enjoyed an occasionally bantering relationship, and the
president several times followed Dr. Fauci's advice to extend national
stay-at-home guidance. But that was as far as it went; Mr. Trump calls
Dr. Fauci ``Anthony,'' a name that few use for someone who prefers the
more casual moniker ``Tony.''

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-04T07:33:06.428Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4547638f}{Fauci
  defends Birx after she is criticized by Trump.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-15e7f995}{Trump
  derides Democrats as lawmakers and administration officials try to
  break stimulus impasse.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-e5a2cda}{The
  deadline for 2020 census counting has been moved up by a month.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/03/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/08/03/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

Dr. Fauci's international reputation has not spared him from the White
House attacks, which
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/07/11/fauci-trump-coronavirus/}{first
appeared in The Washington Post} and later in other news outlets. The
criticism, which was distributed anonymously to reporters, detailed what
the White House believed was a series of premature or contradictory
recommendations that Dr. Fauci has made over the past several months as
the virus bore down on the United States.

For example, White House officials pointed to a statement by Dr. Fauci
in a Feb. 29 interview that ``at this moment, there is no need to change
anything that you're doing on a day-by-day basis.'' But they omitted a
warning he delivered right after.

``Right now, the risk is still low, but this could change,''
\href{https://www.politifact.com/factchecks/2020/apr/13/deanna-lorraine/tweet-amplified-trump-misleads-faucis-late-februar/}{he
said in the interview}, conducted by NBC News. ``When you start to see
community spread, this could change and force you to become much more
attentive to doing things that would protect you from spread.''

In the same interview, Dr. Fauci also warned that the coronavirus could
become ``a major outbreak.''

Kayleigh McEnany, the White House press secretary, took ownership on
Monday of the opposition research-style effort, saying that her office
merely ``provided a direct answer to what was a direct question'' from
The Post about whether Dr. Fauci had made mistakes during the course of
the response.

Even some of Dr. Fauci's senior colleagues at the Department of Health
and Human Services have begun to echo the White House. Adm. Brett P.
Giroir, the assistant secretary for health and a fellow member of the
coronavirus task force, said Sunday on NBC's ``Meet the Press'' that Dr.
Fauci ``is not 100 percent right, and he also doesn't necessarily ---
and he admits that --- have the whole national interest in mind.''

Admiral Giroir added that Dr. Fauci ``looks at it from a very narrow
public health point of view.''

Dr. Fauci spent the early days of the pandemic as the leading scientific
voice in the federal government's response before falling out of favor
with Mr. Trump and his top aides over blunt comments inconsistent with
the president's message of economic resurgence. In task force meetings,
Dr. Fauci has often styled himself as a solitary pessimist in a room
where some officials have been eager to wave away the alarming
trajectory of the coronavirus.

His analysis has sometimes clashed with another prominent public health
figure on the task force, Dr. Deborah L. Birx, who has harnessed a
flurry of projections and models to package a more hopeful picture of
the outbreak.

In the early days of the outbreak, Dr. Fauci, who typically sleeps only
about five hours a night, lived mostly anonymously, taking the
Washington Metro to the White House and Capitol Hill to brief lawmakers.
He still spends late nights in his home office fielding calls from his
boss, Dr. Francis Collins, the N.I.H. director, and from politicians
like Andrew M. Cuomo, the governor of New York and a close friend.

Dr. Fauci, 79, has for decades had broad access to the White House,
where he once explained the AIDS epidemic to President Ronald Reagan.

``There's nothing unique or special about being the director of the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases that sets you up
to be an adviser to presidents,'' Dr. Hamburg said. ``He has become that
because of what he brings to the role.''

Standing next to Mr. Trump through a long string of task force briefings
in March and April, he issued warnings about the ferocity of the virus's
spread and pleas to take it seriously. But his message began to wear on
some Americans who viewed him as an avatar of government fear-mongering
and overreach.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 3, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

At one point, a right-wing movement on Twitter using the hashtag
\#FireFauci picked up steam, and Mr. Trump one night retweeted a
supporter who used the slogan, forcing the president to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/13/us/politics/coronavirus-trump-fauci.html}{defend
himself} at the next day's task force briefing, with Dr. Fauci seated
inches away.

By early April, Dr. Fauci had received so many personal threats that he
was assigned personal protection. The N.I.H. continues to turn over
threats to the agency's security force, said one official familiar with
them.

As Dr. Fauci's prominence has risen, he has received a glut of media and
event requests, forcing officials at the N.I.H. to monitor his email
inbox. He became a ubiquitous presence on cable news.

But as Dr. Fauci's public assessments of the outbreak became
increasingly dire, Mr. Meadows and several press officials he brought to
the White House began to tighten the access television reporters had to
him, ignoring or blocking requests routed to them from the N.I.H.

Broadcast news requests for Dr. Fauci now go through Michael R. Caputo,
the top spokesman at the Department of Health and Human Services, a
loyal ally of the president's who is still friendly with and supportive
of Dr. Fauci. In a text on Monday, Mr. Caputo said that only some of the
requests for Dr. Fauci had to be cleared by the White House.

The White House's attempts to discredit Dr. Fauci raised alarm on Monday
among health experts who have long known him as public health's most
important ambassador.

Dr. David Relman, a microbiologist at Stanford University, said that the
White House's campaign against its own top health expert was ``dark,
dark stain.''

``When you disrespect Tony on matters of public health science, you're
slapping in the face all of U.S. science,'' said Dr. Relman, who has
worked with Dr. Fauci for over 20 years. ``Tony is in some ways the face
of U.S. public health-oriented science.''

Barry Bloom, a professor of public health at Harvard, said that Dr.
Fauci had become the default spokesman for scientific consensus in
absence of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which has
maintained a quiet public role throughout the pandemic.

``What Tony represents is the best that he can find about a scientific
event and consensus,'' said Dr. Bloom, who has known Dr. Fauci for over
40 years. ``Tony doesn't pop off on what's in his head the moment it's
in his head.''

Dr. Relman said Dr. Fauci's role in the federal government's response to
the AIDS epidemic prepared him for the dilemma of responding to complex
outbreaks with ``imperfect information.''

``He learned that science can be politicized,'' Dr. Relman added, ``even
when your conversation partner isn't someone who worships and respects
science.''

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
