Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/asia}{Asia
Pacific}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/asia}{Asia Pacific}\textbar{}North Korea Claims No
Coronavirus Cases. Can It Be Trusted?

\url{https://nyti.ms/2QXAJYt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64b7e0-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64b7e1-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64b7e2-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64def0-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/19/us/colleges-closing-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64def1-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{Colleges
  Closing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=dc64def2-e392-11ea-b9d4-1fe3e0583a82}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{north-korea-claims-no-coronavirus-cases-can-it-be-trusted}{%
\section{North Korea Claims No Coronavirus Cases. Can It Be
Trusted?}\label{north-korea-claims-no-coronavirus-cases-can-it-be-trusted}}

Decades of isolation and international sanctions have ravaged North
Korea's public health system, raising fears about its ability to
confront an outbreak.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/30/world/00virus-nkorea-1/merlin_170716689_bd8cb2ed-7ef9-40c8-8609-daa33829a9d7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-choe-sang-hun/author-choe-sang-hun-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/choe-sang-hun}{Choe
Sang-Hun}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 31, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200401/north-korea-coronavirus/}{阅读简体中文版}\href{https://cn.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/asia-pacific/20200401/north-korea-coronavirus/zh-hant/}{閱讀繁體中文版}

SEOUL, South Korea --- Shin Dong-yun, ​a scientist from the North Korean
Institute of Virology, ​rushed to the northwestern border with China in
early February. There, he conducted 300 tests, skipping meals to assess
​a stream of people ​so that ``the country is protected from the
invasion of the novel coronavirus.''

Stories like this, carried in the state-run newspaper Rodong Sinmun,
focus attention on one of the stranger oddities surrounding the
Covid-19​ pandemic​: How could North Korea claim to not have a single
coronavirus case while countries ​around the world stagger under the
exploding epidemic?

​North Korea has taken some of the most drastic actions against the
virus and did so sooner than most other nations. It sealed its borders
in late January, shutting off business with neighboring China, which
accounts for nine-tenths of its external trade. It clamped down on the
smugglers who keep its thriving
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/04/30/world/asia/north-korea-economy-marketplace.html}{unofficial
markets} functioning. It quarantined all diplomats in Pyongyang for a
month. ​The totalitarian state's singular ability to control the
movement of people​ also bolsters its disease-control efforts.

But decades of isolation and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/04/18/world/asia/north-korea-economy-sanctions.html}{international
sanctions}have ravaged​ North Korea's public health system, raising
concerns that ​it lacks the medical supplies to fight an outbreak, which
many fear has already occurred.

``You can see immediately what's going to happen if you get a surge of
Covid-19 patients streaming in,'' said
\href{https://ghsm.hms.harvard.edu/faculty-staff/kee-b-park}{Dr. Kee B.
Park,} ​a ​lecturer at Harvard Medical School who has worked alongside
North Korean doctors to help improve the country's health system. ``It
will overwhelm the system very quickly.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/30/world/00virus-nkorea-2/merlin_170659038_3ef14b6f-d571-40c0-9736-1fd4c5856a2c-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Many observers of North Korea doubt its claims of not having any
coronavirus cases. But a lack of testing ​equipment ​​may mean it
literally has not detected a single case​, Dr. Park said​.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-21T09:36:59.270Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-4690b6aa}{Shutdowns,
  warnings and scoldings follow gatherings on college campuses.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-324af071}{As
  he accepts the Democratic nomination, Biden knocks Trump's pandemic
  response.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-35890b73}{Hundreds
  of doctors in Kenya go on strike over their pay and protective gear.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/21/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/20/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

​''​It's because they may have cases but they just don't know how to
detect it,'' he said. ``So they can say, `We have not confirmed it​.'''

Some accuse North Korea of hiding an outbreak​ to preserve order.

``It's a blatant lie when they say they have no cases,'' said Seo
Jae-pyoung, secretary-general of the Seoul-based Association of North
Korean Defectors, who said he heard from his North Korean contact that a
family of three and an elderly couple died of the virus in the east
coast city of Chongjin in mid-March. ``The last thing ​the North wants
is ​a ​social chaos ​that may erupt ​when North Koreans realize that
people are ​dying of an epidemic with no cure​.''

The North's leader,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/26/world/asia/kim-jong-un-absence-north-korea.html}{Kim
Jong-un}, is clearly aware of the threat the virus poses to his
country​'s decrepit health system. Around when Washington
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/14/world/asia/coronavirus-north-korea-sanctions.html}{announced}on
Feb. 13 that it would allow coronavirus-related ​humanitarian
shipments​, North Korea made a rare request for urgent help from relief
groups, including diagnostic kits, according to people familiar with the
matter.

​In recent weeks, the North's official media outlets have ​carried
alarming reports detailing the coronavirus's toll around the world: a
snowballing caseload in South Korea; bodies piling up in Italy;
``panicked citizens'' hoarding ``guns and ammunition''​ in the United
States.

Image

Workers disinfecting a department store in Pyongyang last
month.Credit...Kyodo News, via Associated Press

They contrast such reports with pictures of North Korean disease-control
officials in full protective gear spraying disinfectant in buses, trams,
playgrounds and hotel gyms in Pyongyang, the showcase capital city.
Garment factories are shown making masks instead of clothes. There is a
national drive to send eggs, meat and fish to those under quarantine.

By its own account, North Korea has quarantined 10,000 people.
International disease-control officials ``have all been amazed'' how
North Korea could have done it, the state-run Rodong newspaper said this
month.

But video clips shot in Hyesan, a town on the North's central border
with China, in February and early March depict a far less flattering
picture of the North's disease-control efforts.

A red wooden marker on a sidewalk covered with a dirty slush of ice said
``disinfection station,'' according to a clip, which was ​smuggled to
the Rev. Kim Seung-eun, a human rights activist in South Korea, and
viewed by The New York Times. A lone official in a green plastic suit
with a tank of disinfecting liquid on his back stood idly. A silver van
raced through the town blaring the importance of wearing masks. In
another clip, a sign saying
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4dY4hwjJnM}{Quarantined''} was
stuck on the door of what looked like a tenement house where Reverend
Kim said people with possible ​symptoms were kept.

Reverend Kim said ​one of his North Korean contacts ​had been unable to
return home for a month after visiting ​another town because the
government​ controlled internal movement. Such restrictions were needed
for disease control because of North Korea's crowded public
transportation network.

The country's information blackout and the inability of outside health
experts to get into the country leave the rest of the world largely in
the dark about how North Korea is coping with the virus.

Image

Commuters in Pyongyang last month.Credit...Jon Chol Jin/Associated Press

Last month, Daily NK, a Seoul-based website ​that ​hires anonymous
informants inside ​the ​​North, reported the deaths of 200 soldiers, as
well as 23 others, who were suspected of contracting the coronavirus.
B​ut ​Kang Mi-jin, a North Korean defector-turned journalist in Seoul,
said that no matter how hard they searched, her contacts in ​the ​North
could not find a death officially ascribed to the coronavirus.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated August 17, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet} on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{that
    seems likely, for at least several months.} There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure. People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}
    immune molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may} last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}{%
  \paragraph{I'm a small-business owner. Can I get
  relief?}\label{im-a-small-business-owner-can-i-get-relief}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/small-business-loans-stimulus-grants-freelancers-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stimulus
    bills enacted in March} offer help for the millions of American
    small businesses. Those eligible for aid are businesses and
    nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 workers, including sole
    proprietorships, independent contractors and freelancers. Some
    larger companies in some industries are also eligible. The help
    being offered, which is being managed by the Small Business
    Administration, includes the Paycheck Protection Program and the
    Economic Injury Disaster Loan program. But lots of folks have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/05/07/business/small-business-loans-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    yet seen payouts.} Even those who have received help are confused:
    The rules are draconian, and some are stuck sitting on
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/02/business/economy/loans-coronavirus-small-business.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{money
    they don't know how to use.} Many small-business owners are getting
    less than they expected or
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/10/business/Small-business-loans-ppp.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{not
    hearing anything at all.}
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace} with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.} has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees} -\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

In the past, the country has hushed or played down epidemics, military
rebellions, man-made disasters or anything else that could ​undermine
the people's faith in the government.

​But this time, the North's unusually aggressive moves​, as well as its
unique ability to detain people, may have prevented a devastating
outbreak​, said Jung Gwang-il, a North Korean defector who leads No
Chain, a North Korean human rights activist group in Seoul​. As soon as
an outbreak was ​reported in China, North Korea rounded up ​all ​Chinese
visitors in its northeastern town of Rason ​and quarantine​d​ them ​on
an island for a month, Mr. Jung said.

``It's safe to say that there are cases in North Korea, but I don't
think the outbreak there is as large as the ones we have seen in South
Korea, Italy and the U.S.,'' said Ahn Kyung-su, the head of the
Seoul-based Research Center of DPRK Health and Welfare, which monitors
the North's health system. ``North Koreans are trained to obey
government orders in a shipshape way during crises. But there is the
risk of the virus running out of control if it starts spreading among
its malnourished people.''

Mr. Ahn said testing kits from China were available in big cities like
Pyongyang. Telltale evidence came when Kim Jong-un inspected a missile
test this month and military officers surrounding him
\href{https://news.joins.com/article/23736429}{did not wear masks},
which Mr. Ahn said would not have happened had they not tested negative.

Image

A photo released by North Korea's state media this month shows workers
disinfecting a freight train in Sinuiju, on the border with
China.Credit...Korean Central News Agency, via Agence France-Presse ---
Getty Images

But the coronavirus has put Mr. Kim between a rock and a hard place,
analysts say.

On March 17, ​he broke ground on a modern ​``Pyongyang General
Hospital​'' to be completed by October. But such projects in the North
rely​ on mass mobilization​s​ of soldiers who ​sleep and eat together
for months at a stretch​, and raise the risk of mass infections during
an epidemic.

​By this month, some help began reaching North Korea in its efforts to
confront the virus. Russia donated 1,500 test kits​​. China is also
believed to have sent diagnostic tools​. The United Nations has
​​​​begun waiving sanctions for aid groups like​ the Red Cross to ship
testing machines and diagnostic kits, as well as ventilators and
protective equipment. But the shipments have been slow.

​``Given the global shortage of supplies and items being available in
different locations, we are still in the process of procuring the
items,'' said Ellie Van Baaren, a Red Cross spokeswoman.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
