Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump and Pelosi Exchange
Snubs at the State of the Union Address

\url{https://nyti.ms/37093HR}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-and-pelosi-exchange-snubs-at-the-state-of-the-union-address}{%
\section{Trump and Pelosi Exchange Snubs at the State of the Union
Address}\label{trump-and-pelosi-exchange-snubs-at-the-state-of-the-union-address}}

He declined to shake her outstretched hand. She omitted his ceremonial
introduction and ripped up her copy of his speech.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/06/us/politics/04dc-video-pelosi-print/04dc-video-pelosi-videoSixteenByNine3000-v3.jpg}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/26/multimedia/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg/author-sheryl-gay-stolberg-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sheryl-gay-stolberg}{Sheryl Gay
Stolberg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- For President Trump and Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday
night,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/05/us/politics/trump-state-of-the-union.html}{the
State of the Union} was hostile.

The mutual snubbing began the moment Mr. Trump walked into the House
chamber and continued until he finished speaking, when Ms. Pelosi stood,
an expression of vague disgust on her face, and tore up her printed copy
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/05/us/politics/four-more-years-chant-trump.html}{of
his speech} --- in full view of the television cameras, while Mr. Trump
had his back turned.

The interaction between Mr. Trump and Ms. Pelosi, who had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/24/us/politics/democrats-impeachment-trump.html}{led
the drive to impeach him}, was one of the most anticipated moments of
the president's appearance at the Capitol the night before the Senate is
expected to acquit him in his impeachment trial. The two had not seen
each other since October, when Ms. Pelosi
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/18/us/politics/trump-pelosi-photo.html}{abruptly
left a White House meeting} after lecturing a scowling Mr. Trump.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/02/04/us/politics/04dc-trump1-sub/merlin_168401274_29054352-3652-48c0-91fc-0d0d12bee2d4-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

On Tuesday night, the sour dynamic was on display from the start. When
Mr. Trump stepped up to the rostrum in the House of Representatives and
handed her his speech, Ms. Pelosi rose and extended her hand to shake
his. Mr. Trump turned his back, and the speaker quickly withdrew her
hand, appearing to shrug slightly and raise her eyebrows as if to say,
``Well, I tried.''

Then Ms. Pelosi dealt Mr. Trump a slight of her own by omitting the
customary laudatory words in her introduction of the president.
Normally, she would have said, ``I have the high privilege and distinct
honor ** of presenting to you the president of the United States.''

Instead, she said simply, ``Members of Congress, the president of the
United States.''

But it was the flourish at the end --- when Ms. Pelosi made a point of
picking up her copy of the speech, ripping it in half and throwing the
pieces on the table in front of her --- that grabbed the attention of
the public and drew the ire of Republicans. The gesture was particularly
out of character for the speaker, who prides herself on exhibiting
proper decorum.

Republicans seized on the speech-ripping as beyond the pale.

``@SpeakerPelosi had a tantrum, disgraced herself and dishonored the
House,'' Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the No. 3 House
Republican,
\href{https://twitter.com/Liz_Cheney/status/1224902093380648960}{wr}\href{https://twitter.com/Liz_Cheney/status/1224902093380648960?s=20}{ote
on Twitter.}``She is an embarrassment and unfit for office.''

Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump's campaign manager, sounded almost gleeful.
``Nancy \& the Dems couldn't stand what they were hearing because it was
all good news for Americans!''
\href{https://twitter.com/parscale/status/1224901504236228608}{he wrote
on Twitter}. ``Rip up the speech, Nancy! You'll want to rip up the
election results in November too!''

Predictably, there were deep partisan divisions over who was behaving
poorly to whom. Democrats were focused on Mr. Trump's handshake snub,
which
\href{https://twitter.com/speakerpelosi/status/1224907608982802433}{Ms.
Pelosi later spotlighted on Twitter}, along with a photograph of the
president turning his back.

``Democrats will never stop extending the hand of friendship to get the
job done
\href{https://twitter.com/hashtag/ForThePeople?src=hashtag_click}{\#ForThePeople},''
she wrote, using the party's campaign slogan. ``We will work to find
common ground where we can, but will stand our ground where we cannot.
\#SOTU''

During the address, as Mr. Trump read from the teleprompter, Ms. Pelosi,
dressed in white --- the color of the suffragists,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/04/us/politics/women-in-white-state-of-the-union.html}{worn
by many of the Democratic women in the chamber} --- could be seen behind
him, paging through his speech. Practiced at maintaining a stone face
(she served as House speaker alongside another Republican president,
George W. Bush), she kept her lips pursed and her eyes down, mostly
remaining seated as Republicans rose to give Mr. Trump one standing
ovation after another.

But when Mr. Trump made mention of the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/us/politics/senate-criminal-justice-bill.html}{First
Step Act}, the bipartisan legislation that overhauled criminal justice
reforms, Ms. Pelosi clapped and rose to her feet.

The relationship between Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Trump has long been one of
the most closely watched in Washington --- and it began going downhill
even before Ms. Pelosi became House speaker. Mr. Trump tried to undercut
her during an Oval Office meeting shortly after Democrats swept to the
majority in 2018. Ms. Pelosi would have none of it.

``Mr. President,'' she shot back, ``please don't characterize the
strength that I bring to this meeting as the leader of the House
Democrats, who just won a big victory.'' When the meeting was over,
images of Ms. Pelosi leaving the White House in a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/fashion/nancy-pelosi-coat.html}{swingy
red coat} quickly went viral.

From there, their interactions seemed defined by a series of memes and
public spats. Ms. Pelosi called off last year's State of the Union
address because of the government shutdown, enraging Mr. Trump and
prompting him to cancel a flight she had scheduled overseas. When his
speech was rescheduled, Ms. Pelosi was captured
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/06/us/politics/pelosi-clapback.html}{smirking
and clapping} at the president. When they met in October, a White House
photographer snapped an image of the speaker standing up and wagging her
finger at the seated president while she lectured him.

But none of that came close to the spectacle in the House chamber
Tuesday night, on the eve of the president's expected acquittal in the
Republican-led Senate on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of
Congress in connection with his campaign to pressure Ukraine to
investigate his political rivals.

Ms. Pelosi has said that regardless of the Senate outcome, Mr. Trump
will be ``impeached forever,'' as she said in an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/02/03/us/politics/pelosi-impeachment.html}{interview}
on Monday. She also made a point of saying that she planned to treat the
president at the State of the Union address ``with the respect that he
deserves,'' though she added that she did not necessarily expect the
same from him.

``We will treat him as a guest in our House --- and we hope he will
behave as a guest in our House,'' she said. ``But we never have that
expectation.''

After her display of disdain on Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi told reporters that
she had ripped up the speech ``because it was a manifesto of
mistruths.'' Earlier, she had said that it was the ``courteous thing to
do, considering the alternatives.'' She did not elaborate on what else
she had considered.

Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
