Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}`Our Role Is to
Reduce Their Grief'

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jghfea}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

Iraq Dispatch

\hypertarget{our-role-is-to-reduce-their-grief}{%
\section{`Our Role Is to Reduce Their
Grief'}\label{our-role-is-to-reduce-their-grief}}

None of Iraq's existing graveyards wanted the bodies of Covid-19
patients. So Shiite leaders created a burial ground for them that is
also open to Sunnis and Christians.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/world/xxiraq-graveyard/merlin_174035835_04c267c5-0387-49c4-80a3-bf17fe4349aa-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/alissa-j-rubin}{Alissa J.
Rubin}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  July 18, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

THE DESERT WEST OF NAJAF --- There are no signs to signal the way to the
New Valley of Peace, or, as the Iraqis call it, the ``Corona cemetery.''
But it's not hard to find: Just follow the cars. It's the only place
they are headed on the rough desert road.

Ground was broken on this cemetery in southern Iraq four months ago, and
already there are more than 3,200 graves. The backhoes work every night
to make new furrows in the sandy soil.

``We are waiting for our mother,'' said Ali Radhi, 49, from Nasiriya as
he stood by his car at the cemetery's gate in the blazing summer sun
earlier this month, when midafternoon temperatures hit 115 degrees.
``She died two days ago, but now with corona, we cannot bring her. We
have to wait for the ambulance to carry her.''

``There are some rituals we should be doing, but with corona we cannot
even touch her body and we did not hold a funeral,'' he added softly,
staring up the road as if willing the ambulance carrying his mother's
body to appear on the horizon.

In Islam, burial should be done quickly, if possible within 24 hours of
death. The body should be ritually cleansed by professional washers, but
the family can be present --- men at the washing of a male relative,
women of a female one.

In pre-Covid times, Shiite Muslims, no matter where they were from in
Iraq, would then carry the coffin on their shoulders around the Imam Ali
shrine in the pilgrim city of Najaf and pray over the body outside the
shrine's doors. Then they would take the coffin to the Wadi-Al-Salam
cemetery, one of the largest and oldest in the world, for burial.

Sunnis would hold their funerals close to home and then take the body to
a nearby graveyard, where, as in Shiism, the grave diggers would lift
the deceased's white-shrouded body from the coffin and lay it in the
earth, with the head facing Mecca.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/07/19/world/xxiraq-dispatch6/merlin_173067840_8ea3e974-2778-4140-bfdc-580d1354d175-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

For Mr. Radhi and the other people whose loved ones have been buried at
the new Wadi-Al-Salam cemetery, all these essential rituals must be
forgone, and it feels like a betrayal. They failed to do the last good
thing possible for someone they loved: to send them in good order to the
next world.

``They are burying their relative not in the usual way, and this makes
them very sad,'' said Tawfik Mahdi, a cleric from Najaf, who is on hand
to try to comfort families. ``Our role is to reduce their grief and say,
`Don't worry, this pandemic happened and you cannot be close to them
like you were before, but we will pray for you.'''

Image

Volunteers at the cemetery shrouding the body of a man who died of
Covid-19.Credit...Alaa Al-Marjani/Reuters

The story of how the cemetery came into existence starts when the first
coronavirus patients began to die in March in Baghdad.

The religious and health authorities were unprepared for the sense of
stigma that having the disease carried, as well as the fear that
touching the body would risk contagion. Cemeteries refused to take those
who had died of Covid-19 because people whose relatives had not died of
the virus felt it was a stigma to be buried next to someone who had.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: Global Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: Global Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-global-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-08-01T19:54:00.494Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-3ac56579}{Top
  officials work to break impasse over jobless benefit.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-8796723}{The
  virus picks up dangerous speed in the Midwest, and in areas that had
  seen success.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-25930521}{Thousands
  in Berlin protest Germany's coronavirus measures.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

While scientists have not established how long the virus survives in a
person who has died of it, they believe it might linger for as much as a
few hours and could be on materials used in wrapping and transporting
bodies.

``I began to see these scenes on TV --- I still remember them --- there
were seven or eight bodies thrown outside a hospital morgue and they
left them there,'' recalled Sheikh Tahir Al-Khaqani, who is head of the
Imam Ali Combat Division, one of the first militias created to fight the
Islamic State. Unlike some of the militias that are close to Iran, the
Imam Ali brigade is linked to the moderate, inclusive senior Shiite
cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani.

Image

A member of the Iraqi Shiite group Imam Ali Combat Division loading the
body of a coronavirus victim into a truck, outside a hospital morgue in
Baghdad, in July.~Credit...Murtaja Lateef/EPA, via Shutterstock

The idea came to Mr. Al-Khaqani that the solution was a new graveyard
just for those who died of the coronavirus. He conferred with the
governor of Najaf, with Mr. Sistani and with the leader of the Shia
Endowment, which is in charge of all Shiite financial and real estate
matters.

Within days, they had a 1,500-acre patch of ground 20 miles from the
city of Najaf, allocated for the burials.

The Imam Ali combat division volunteered to run the cemetery. Its
medical teams took on the job of receiving the dead, disinfecting the
body bags in which they arrived and then washing the deceased.

Other contingents took responsibility for the digging and burials. Some
took on the role of guides to help family members when they come to find
their relative's grave among the thousands stretching out across the
desert. Family visits are permitted 10 days after burial.

Under orders from the grand ayatollah, although the graveyard is run by
Shiites, it welcomes everyone regardless of faith or sect and burial is
free.

Mohammed Qasim, a date and vegetable farmer from near Baghdad, said
those digging the graves, attending to the washing and pronouncing the
last rites are ``human angels.''

``Yes, these are the noblest people I have ever met,'' he said. ``How
can they not be the noblest when they are with death at the same table
for breakfast, lunch and dinner and yet they do not complain.''

Image

Volunteers preparing a body for burial at the New Valley of Peace
cemetery, in June.~Credit...Ali Najafi/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

For Ari Sahak Dirthal, 33, an Armenian Christian, his father's burial on
July 1 is still a source of pain. ``I immediately went to the Armenian
Orthodox church in Baghdad because I knew that my father wanted to be
buried there, and so I was surprised when they said we cannot bury him
here,'' he said.

They directed him to the coronavirus cemetery. On the way, he
frantically made calls to find out what prayers to say. It still cuts to
the quick, he said, that no one from the Armenian Orthodox Church came
with him.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated July 27, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}{%
  \paragraph{Should I refinance my
  mortgage?}\label{should-i-refinance-my-mortgage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It
    could be a good idea,} because mortgage rates have
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/16/business/mortgage-rates-below-3-percent.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{never
    been lower.} Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications
    to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in
    line. But defaults are also up, so if you're thinking about buying a
    home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}{%
  \paragraph{What is school going to look like in
  September?}\label{what-is-school-going-to-look-like-in-september}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule
    this fall, requiring the grind of
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/coronavirus-education-lost-learning.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{online
    learning},
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/29/us/coronavirus-child-care-centers.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{makeshift
    child care} and
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/03/business/economy/coronavirus-working-women.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{stunted
    workdays} to continue. California's two largest public school
    districts --- Los Angeles and San Diego --- said on July 13, that
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/13/us/lausd-san-diego-school-reopening.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{instruction
    will be remote-only in the fall}, citing concerns that surging
    coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for
    students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some
    825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to
    abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when
    they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won't be an
    all-or-nothing approach.
    \href{https://bioethics.jhu.edu/research-and-outreach/projects/eschool-initiative/school-policy-tracker/}{Many
    systems}, including the nation's largest, New York City, are
    devising
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/26/us/coronavirus-schools-reopen-fall.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{hybrid
    plans} that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days
    online. There's no national policy on this yet, so check with your
    municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your
    community.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}{%
  \paragraph{Is the coronavirus
  airborne?}\label{is-the-coronavirus-airborne}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/04/health/239-experts-with-one-big-claim-the-coronavirus-is-airborne.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{can
    stay aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air}, infecting
    people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This
    risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and
    may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking
    plants, churches and restaurants.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/06/health/coronavirus-airborne-aerosols.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{It's
    unclear how often the virus is spread} via these tiny droplets, or
    aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a
    sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with
    contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at
    Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without
    symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more
    than 200 other experts, who
    \href{https://academic.oup.com/cid/article/doi/10.1093/cid/ciaa939/5867798}{have
    outlined the evidence in an open letter to the World Health
    Organization}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Common symptoms
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/symptoms-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{include
    fever, a dry cough, fatigue and difficulty breathing or shortness of
    breath.} Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu,
    making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are
    less common.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{The
    C.D.C. has also} added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache
    and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look
    out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but
    symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}{%
  \paragraph{Does asymptomatic transmission of Covid-19
  happen?}\label{does-asymptomatic-transmission-of-covid-19-happen}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0869-5}{paper}
    published in April suggests that people are most infectious about
    two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that
    44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from
    people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at
    the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the
    coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was ``very rare,''
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/09/world/coronavirus-updates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-1f302e21}{but
    she later walked back that statement.}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Mr. Dirthal said he was welcomed by the sheikhs in charge of the
cemetery, who told him his father could be buried anywhere.

``I just said, `I want the grave of my father to be away from the
others,' and indeed he was buried one kilometer away from the graves of
the Muslims,'' Mr. Dirthal said.

The Shiite grave diggers did their best for his father, he said, sending
him a video of the burial, with one of the Shiite medical staff wearing
protective gear and awkwardly making the sign of the cross over his
father's body.

For Sunnis, the rituals are more familiar, and so the farewells have
been easier --- and less lonely. Hundreds of Sunnis are buried here. But
a burial far from home is still hard.

Image

Praying over coffins at the New Valley of Peace cemetery, in
June.~Credit...Ali Najafi/Agence France-Presse --- Getty Images

The main Sunni cemetery in Baghdad would not accept the body of the
father of Al-Murtada Ahmed Jasmin, even though that is where all his
family members had been buried.

``All the way driving to the new Wadi Al-Salam cemetery, I spoke with my
father and said to him, `Please forgive me I could not do your will and
bury you with our family,''' said Mr. Jasmin, 22.

But after he arrived at the cemetery, ``all of the tiredness and anger
went away because I found a typical cemetery where I could visit my
father at any time,'' he said. ``I felt great relief and said to myself
that God loves my father when he chose this place for his burial.''

The cemetery entrance is nothing more than a metal skeleton frame in the
shape of a grand mosque door. Beyond stretches the desert, glittering in
the sun, with row after row after row of graves, each with the words of
the Quran: ``This is the will of Allah.''

As the sun set on the evening earlier this month, more families arrived
along with the ambulances. Burials take place from 6 p.m. until the
first prayers of the morning.

Fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters stood at the
edge of the cemetery. A rope kept them from entering to ensure that they
stay far from the bodies and any live infection. Some raised their arms
to the sky and cried their loss.

Although the weeping and keening are ritual, it expressed perhaps even
more than usual a sense of injustice: How could they be kept from their
loved ones in these crucial last moments? They had traveled so far, to a
cemetery in the middle of nowhere, but could not follow the body to the
end. It was the ultimate, most painful form of social distancing.

A middle-aged brother and sister stood together in the hot night. The
wind blew the woman's abaya around her in swirls and the man raised his
arms to the sky.

``I give you to the care of Imam Ali,'' he said to his dead father,
referring to a founding figure of Shiite Islam.

His sister wept into the wind.

Falih Hassan contributed reporting from Baghdad.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
