Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Scott Pruitt's Environmental
Rollbacks Stumbled in Court. His Successor Is More Thorough.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2zowo7U}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{scott-pruitts-environmental-rollbacks-stumbled-in-court-his-successor-is-more-thorough}{%
\section{Scott Pruitt's Environmental Rollbacks Stumbled in Court. His
Successor Is More
Thorough.}\label{scott-pruitts-environmental-rollbacks-stumbled-in-court-his-successor-is-more-thorough}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/23/climate/23CLI-WHEELER-print/merlin_141128562_d182c790-e38b-4a92-809e-6da34e1197dd-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Nov. 21, 2018
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\emph{Want climate news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here
for}}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Climate
Fwd:}}}\emph{, our email newsletter.}

WASHINGTON --- Before resigning as the head of the Environmental
Protection Agency this year, Scott Pruitt delighted President Trump with
his zeal for proclaiming sweeping regulatory rollbacks, even though he
left behind a trail of courtroom setbacks.

Andrew R. Wheeler, a former energy lobbyist whom Mr. Trump plans to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/16/climate/trump-andrew-wheeler-epa.html}{nominate
to lead the E.P.A.}, has been quietly cleaning up the mess.

Where virtually all of Mr. Pruitt's
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rollbacks.html}{hastily
written
rollbacks}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rollbacks.html}{and
suspensions}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/07/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-rollbacks.html}{have
been blocked by the courts}, Mr. Wheeler has taken a far more
deliberative approach, immersing himself in the legal intricacies --- a
strategy that could make Mr. Wheeler one of the most effective drivers
of the Trump administration's ambitious plan to rewrite the nation's
rule book on the environment and climate.

``He's done a fantastic job,'' Mr. Trump said Friday of Mr. Wheeler, who
has served as the E.P.A.'s acting administrator
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-trump.html}{since
Mr. Pruitt stepped down in July} amid a wave of ethics scandals.
Supporters say the White House sees in Mr. Wheeler the anti-Pruitt:
drama-free, low-key, and, most importantly, able to get the proposed
rollbacks through the courts.

In doing this, however, Mr. Wheeler has already found himself at odds
not only with conservative groups but others within his own
administration.

But these tensions underscored what many say is the essential difference
between Mr. Trump's first and second choices for E.P.A. chief: Where Mr.
Pruitt sought the limelight, Mr. Wheeler sweats the details. And that
could make him a far more formidable weapon than his predecessor in the
Trump administration's vast reshaping of environmental and climate
rules.

``Andy Wheeler is one of the few calm spots in the turbulent seas of
this executive branch,'' said Scott Segal, a fossil fuel lobbyist for
Bracewell who has worked closely with Mr. Wheeler. ``That must come as a
pretty welcome relief to this White House.'' He also has ``sufficient
process understanding to make that agenda stick,'' Mr. Segal added.

This summer, for instance, the E.P.A. took steps to replace the Clean
Power Plan, a major Obama administration policy designed to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. The new version of the plan
is significantly weaker.

But Mr. Pruitt had wanted to eliminate the program entirely, while Mr.
Wheeler, according to several industry sources, insisted that the
government was legally obligated to have a climate plan. Therefore,
eliminating the Clean Power Plan without replacing it could be
challenged in court and leave an opening for even tougher regulations
under a future Democratic president.

``I got phone calls from conservatives wanting to know, `Why did we do
anything? Why are we putting forward a proposal at all?''' Mr. Wheeler
acknowledged in an interview last week. His argument, that more
restrictive replacement is better than killing off the climate
regulation entirely, won the day.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Then, in August, the E.P.A. and the Transportation Department moved to
gut another major federal effort to combat climate change by relaxing
rules aimed at reducing car tailpipe pollution. The Trump administration
plan also voided California's ability to set its own, stricter
standards, triggering a potentially ugly legal battle between Washington
and blue states over the ability to fight global warming.

Mr. Wheeler, according to several people involved in the discussions,
pushed back forcefully against an analysis used by highway officials to
justify the rollback, which argued that stricter fuel pollution rules
would cause thousands of deaths in road accidents. The agency argued
that more efficient cars are less safe because they are lighter.

People who have attended meetings with Mr. Wheeler said he argued that
the fatality numbers relied on bad calculations and were likely to be
successfully challenged in court.

Mr. Wheeler on Friday
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/27/climate/trump-auto-pollution-rollback.html}{denied
that he had clashed with Jeffrey A. Rosen}, the chief Transportation
Department architect of the auto-standards rollback, saying he merely
sought to understand his colleagues' mathematical modeling and legal
reasoning. ``I wanted to make sure what we were putting forward would be
upheld in the courts, and he assured me that the work they had done
would be,'' Mr. Wheeler said.

A department official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was
not authorized to speak on the record, said on Tuesday that there was
``no dispute'' between the agencies.

Mr. Wheeler's predecessor, Mr. Pruitt, faced
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/18/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-investigations-guide.html}{more
than a dozen federal investigations} into his conduct, including his
extensive use of first-class air travel, renting a condo from the wife
of an energy lobbyist with business before the E.P.A. and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/15/us/politics/scott-pruitt-epa-aides.html}{enlisting
aides on personal tasks} like buying a used mattress from Trump
International Hotel and seeking a Chick-fil-A franchise for his wife.

The grandson of a coal miner and an Ohio native, Mr. Wheeler studied
biology in college and got his first job after law school in the 1990s
working at the E.P.A.'s office of pollution prevention and toxics. He
later worked in the Senate for 14 years, most of that time for Senator
James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who has denied the established
science of climate change.

During that time, Mr. Pruitt was seen as a protÃ©gÃ© of Senator Inhofe.
The senator last week said he strongly supported Mr. Wheeler's
nomination.

As an energy lobbyist since 2009, Mr. Wheeler's top client was Robert E.
Murray, the chief executive of one of the country's largest coal
companies, a fierce opponent of E.P.A. climate change regulations and a
denier of established climate science.

Asked last week to describe his understanding of the best available
science on global warming, Mr. Wheeler said: ``I think climate change is
happening. Man has an impact. CO2 has an impact.''

It's not a full acceptance of the scientific consensus that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/03/climate/us-climate-report.html}{humans
are the dominant cause of rising global temperatures}. But it's closer
to it than the positions of
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/08/climate/pruitt-climate-change.html}{Mr.
Pruitt}, who falsely claimed that there was ``tremendous disagreement''
among scientists about how great a role humans play in driving warming,
or
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/15/climate/trump-climate-change-fact-check.html}{Mr.
Trump}, who said ``I don't know that it's man-made.''

Still, Mr. Wheeler argued, sweeping regulations, like the plan put forth
by the Obama administration to force a shift toward renewable energy by
asking states to reduce emissions from coal plants, would have
``basically ended the coal industry in the United States.''

``People have to realize the use of coal worldwide has not peaked,'' Mr.
Wheeler said.

Since taking over as acting E.P.A. administrator, Mr. Wheeler has
replaced Mr. Pruitt's artwork of Henry Clay, a former senator and
secretary of state, with wall hangings of the Senate roll call vote for
a highway spending bill he helped pass in 2005 and the bronze medals he
earned for budgetary work at E.P.A. in the 1990s. He said he has not
needed to use the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/16/climate/scott-pruitt-phone-booth.html}{\$43,000
secure phone booth} Mr. Pruitt installed.

He also has made a point of being more deeply involved in the agency's
inner workings. He visited all 10 of the E.P.A.'s regional offices at
the start of his tenure and has involved the agency's longtime career
employees in policy meetings, things Mr. Pruitt hadn't done. Moves like
these have won praise from some of Mr. Pruitt's fiercest critics.

``He's somebody that respects the institution of the E.P.A.,'' Kevin
Minoli, the E.P.A.'s former top ethics counsel who had called for
investigations into Mr. Pruitt, said of Mr. Wheeler.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/11/21/science/21CLI-WHEELER2/merlin_140498853_44b6d4e2-155b-4597-9a93-00857d2b3ea2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

That hasn't endeared him to environmental groups, however. In fact, many
say Mr. Wheeler's softer touch has made it harder to focus the public's
attention on his weakening of clean air and water laws.

``In some ways Pruitt distracted from some of the very negative things
that were going on in environmental law, but in other ways there was a
lot of attention being paid to E.P.A.,'' said Conrad Schneider, advocacy
director for the Clean Air Task Force, an environmental nonprofit
organization.

Analysts on both sides say Mr. Wheeler is more pragmatic than his
predecessor and more disciplined. Where Mr. Pruitt would throw his
energy into ideological battles, like trying to create support for a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/09/climate/pruitt-red-team-climate-debate-kelly.html}{military-style
televised debate of climate science}, Mr. Wheeler has eschewed the
limelight and strategically focused on a handful of major policy
initiatives.

Under Mr. Wheeler's watch, the E.P.A. has moved forward with rolling
back or weakening every major Obama-era climate change regulation. In
addition to the proposal to loosen car pollution rules, those moves
include replacing a landmark effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions
from coal-fired power plants with a plan that the agency says
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/21/climate/epa-coal-pollution-deaths.html}{will
see air pollution actually rise}, and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/10/climate/methane-emissions-epa.html}{reducing
limits on methane pollution}, a powerful greenhouse gas, from oil and
gas wells.

He also has focused on work begun by Mr. Pruitt to revise Mr. Obama's
clean water regulation, known as the
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/14/climate/pruitt-clean-air-water-rollbacks.html}{Waters
of the United State rule}, saying on Friday that the revisions ``will be
coming out soon.'' He has taken on an effort to weaken and perhaps
repeal
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/30/climate/epa-trump-mercury-rule.html}{a
2011 rule that limits mercury}, a toxic chemical that is emitted from
coal plants.

And, while he has pushed back to 2020 a plan initiated by Mr. Pruitt to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/26/climate/epa-scientific-transparency-honest-act.html}{impose
broad new restrictions on the types of scientific research the E.P.A.
uses} to write regulations, he said he fully intended to finalize it.
Emails obtained by the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group,
have found that Mr. Pruitt's political staff excluded the E.P.A.'s chief
science adviser from helping to design the rule. The group says the
absence of scientists in the writing of the regulation undermined the
administration's argument that the proposal was done in the interest of
science.

``Which is why we're taking our time with it now,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
``It was proposed before I got here.''

However, under Mr. Wheeler, the E.P.A. also has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/09/27/climate/epa-science-adviser.html}{eliminated
the office of chief science adviser}.

``By word and deed, Wheeler is proving to be as bad and dangerous as
Pruitt,'' said John Walke, clean air director at the Natural Resources
Defense Council.

Conservatives see Mr. Wheeler and his predecessor in a different light.
Among them is Myron Ebell,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/12/science/myron-ebell-trump-epa.html?module=inline}{who
led Mr. Trump's E.P.A. transition team}. ``Pruitt was an outstanding
advocate for the Trump agenda, and now it's up to Andy Wheeler to be the
outstanding implementer of the Trump agenda,'' Mr. Ebell said.

For more news on climate and the environment,
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{follow @NYTClimate on Twitter}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
