Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/us}{U.S.}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map
and Case Count

\url{https://nyti.ms/39jvJEY}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/29/us/schools-reopening-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{What
  School May Look Like}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/07/31/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}{%
\section{Coronavirus in the U.S.: Latest Map and Case
Count}\label{coronavirus-in-the-us-latest-map-and-case-count}}

By The New York TimesUpdated August 2, 2020, 12:18 A.M. E.T.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/es/interactive/2020/espanol/mundo/coronavirus-en-estados-unidos.html}{Leer
en español}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}~

COUNTRIES

\textbar{}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{U.S.A.}~

STATES

~
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Hampshire}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Jersey}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Mexico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
Rico}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
Island}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Carolina}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
Dakota}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
D.C.}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
Virginia}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}

~

0

50,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

Total cases

4.6 million+

Deaths

154,909

Includes confirmed and probable cases where available

\protect\hyperlink{map}{Map}\protect\hyperlink{states}{Cases by
state}\protect\hyperlink{hotspots}{Hot
spots}\protect\hyperlink{clusters}{Clusters}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{Latest
news »}

At least 1,054 new coronavirus deaths and 58,183 new cases were were
reported in the United States on Aug. 1. Over the past week, there have
been an average of 62,579 cases per day, a decrease of 5 percent from
the average two weeks earlier.

As of Sunday morning, more than 4,628,400 people in the United States
have been infected with the coronavirus and at least 154,900 have died,
according to a New York Times database.

Hot spots

Total cases

Deaths

Per capita

Average daily cases per 100,000 people in the past week

Few or no cases

Share of population with a reported case

No cases reported

Double-click to zoom into the map.

Use two fingers to pan and zoom. Tap for details.

Sources: State and local health agencies and hospitals.

About this data The hot spots map shows the share of population with a
new reported case over the last week. Parts of a county with a
population density lower than 10 people per square mile are not shaded.
Data for Rhode Island is shown at the state level because county level
data is infrequently reported. For total cases and deaths: The map shows
the known locations of coronavirus cases by county. Circles are sized by
the number of people there who have tested positive or have a probable
case of the virus, which may differ from where they contracted the
illness. For per capita: Parts of a county with a population density
lower than 10 people per square mile are not shaded.

Case numbers are surging throughout most of the United States, including
in many states that were among the first to reopen. Because the number
of people hospitalized and the percentage of people testing positive is
also rising in many of those places, the case spike cannot be solely
explained by increased testing. Still, coronavirus deaths remain well
below their peak levels. And as some places reimpose restrictions,
others continue to reopen their economies.

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-increasing}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are
increasing}\label{where-new-cases-are-increasing}}

Cases per capita

Total cases

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale. States are
sorted by cases per capita for the most recent day. Tap a state to see
detailed map page.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-28.svg}

7-day average

Last 14 days

\textbf{Mississippi} Mar. 1 Aug. 1

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-47.svg}

\textbf{Tennessee}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-40.svg}

\textbf{Oklahoma}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-29.svg}

\textbf{Missouri}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-02.svg}

\textbf{Alaska}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-38.svg}

\textbf{North Dakota}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-24.svg}

\textbf{Maryland}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-31.svg}

\textbf{Nebraska}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-72.svg}

\textbf{Puerto Rico}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-21.svg}

\textbf{Kentucky}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-27.svg}

\textbf{Minnesota}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-18.svg}

\textbf{Indiana}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-17.svg}

\textbf{Illinois}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-44.svg}

\textbf{Rhode Island}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-11.svg}

\textbf{Washington, D.C.}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-46.svg}

\textbf{South Dakota}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-26.svg}

\textbf{Michigan}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-56.svg}

\textbf{Wyoming}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-54.svg}

\textbf{West Virginia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-15.svg}

\textbf{Hawaii}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-25.svg}

\textbf{Massachusetts}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-34.svg}

\textbf{New Jersey}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-33.svg}

\textbf{New Hampshire}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-23.svg}

\textbf{Maine}

+ Show all -- Show less

These states have had recent growth in newly reported cases over the
last 14 days. The White House released criteria for states to reopen
based on a ``downward trajectory'' of cases over the last 14 days,
though it did not define how to measure the trajectory.

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-mostly-the-same}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are mostly the
same}\label{where-new-cases-are-mostly-the-same}}

Cases per capita

Total cases

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale. States are
sorted by cases per capita for the most recent day. Tap a state to see
detailed map page.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-22.svg}

7-day average

Last 14 days

\textbf{Louisiana} Mar. 1 Aug. 1

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-32.svg}

\textbf{Nevada}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-13.svg}

\textbf{Georgia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-16.svg}

\textbf{Idaho}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-05.svg}

\textbf{Arkansas}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-06.svg}

\textbf{California}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-37.svg}

\textbf{North Carolina}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-55.svg}

\textbf{Wisconsin}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-19.svg}

\textbf{Iowa}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-35.svg}

\textbf{New Mexico}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-51.svg}

\textbf{Virginia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-30.svg}

\textbf{Montana}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-39.svg}

\textbf{Ohio}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-53.svg}

\textbf{Washington}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-10.svg}

\textbf{Delaware}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-08.svg}

\textbf{Colorado}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-41.svg}

\textbf{Oregon}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-42.svg}

\textbf{Pennsylvania}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-36.svg}

\textbf{New York}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-09.svg}

\textbf{Connecticut}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-66.svg}

\textbf{Guam}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-50.svg}

\textbf{Vermont}

+ Show all -- Show less

\hypertarget{where-new-cases-are-decreasing}{%
\subsection{Where new cases are
decreasing}\label{where-new-cases-are-decreasing}}

Cases per capita

Total cases

Charts show daily cases per capita and are on the same scale. States are
sorted by cases per capita for the most recent day. Tap a state to see
detailed map page.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-12.svg}

7-day average

Last 14 days

\textbf{Florida} Mar. 1 Aug. 1

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-04.svg}

\textbf{Arizona}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-01.svg}

\textbf{Alabama}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-45.svg}

\textbf{South Carolina}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-48.svg}

\textbf{Texas}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-49.svg}

\textbf{Utah}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-20.svg}

\textbf{Kansas}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/cases/per-capita/USA-78.svg}

\textbf{U.S. Virgin Islands}

Note: States and territories are grouped according to how the seven-day
average of new cases has changed from two weeks ago to today.

\hypertarget{where-new-deaths-are-increasing}{%
\subsection{Where new deaths are
increasing}\label{where-new-deaths-are-increasing}}

Deaths per capita

Total deaths

Charts show daily deaths per capita and are on the same scale. States
are sorted by deaths per capita for the most recent day. Tap a state to
see detailed map page.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-28.svg}

7-day average

Last 14 days

\textbf{Mississippi} Mar. 1 Aug. 1

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-12.svg}

\textbf{Florida}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-45.svg}

\textbf{South Carolina}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-48.svg}

\textbf{Texas}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-22.svg}

\textbf{Louisiana}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-32.svg}

\textbf{Nevada}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-13.svg}

\textbf{Georgia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-16.svg}

\textbf{Idaho}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-06.svg}

\textbf{California}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-35.svg}

\textbf{New Mexico}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-05.svg}

\textbf{Arkansas}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-39.svg}

\textbf{Ohio}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-37.svg}

\textbf{North Carolina}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-19.svg}

\textbf{Iowa}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-51.svg}

\textbf{Virginia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-40.svg}

\textbf{Oklahoma}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-29.svg}

\textbf{Missouri}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-30.svg}

\textbf{Montana}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-46.svg}

\textbf{South Dakota}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-41.svg}

\textbf{Oregon}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-24.svg}

\textbf{Maryland}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-18.svg}

\textbf{Indiana}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-55.svg}

\textbf{Wisconsin}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-08.svg}

\textbf{Colorado}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-20.svg}

\textbf{Kansas}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-31.svg}

\textbf{Nebraska}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-54.svg}

\textbf{West Virginia}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-72.svg}

\textbf{Puerto Rico}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/ce90458a2d0f1fad49dbcecf169e0d12d3544d2b/build/curve-grid/deaths/per-capita/USA-33.svg}

\textbf{New Hampshire}

+ Show all -- Show less

These states have had the highest growth in newly reported deaths over
the last 14 days. Deaths tend to rise a few weeks after a rise in
infections, as there is typically a delay between when people are
infected, when they die and when deaths are reported. Some deaths
reported in the last two weeks may have occurred much earlier because of
these delays.

In late February, there were just a few dozen known cases in the United
States, most of them linked to travel. But by summer, the virus had torn
through every state, infecting more people than the combined populations
of Nebraska, Vermont and Montana. The national death toll exceeded the
population of Syracuse, N.Y. And after weeks of progress, reports of new
cases reached record levels in late June and early July.

\hypertarget{cases-and-deaths-by-state-and-county}{%
\subsubsection{Cases and deaths by state and
county}\label{cases-and-deaths-by-state-and-county}}

This table is sorted by places with the most cases per 100,000 residents
in the last seven days. Charts are colored to reveal when outbreaks
emerged.

Cases

Deaths

Show all

About this data Weekly cases per capita shows the share of population
with a new reported case for each week. Weeks without a reported case
are shaded gray. The table includes new cases and deaths that were
reported in the last seven days.

See our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/08/01/world/coronavirus-covid-19.html}{live
coverage of the coronavirus outbreak} for the latest news.

American life has been fundamentally reordered because of the virus.
Concerts, parades and baseball games have been called off. Unemployment
claims have spiked. And in most states, case numbers are rising again.

\hypertarget{new-reported-cases-by-day-in-the-united-states}{%
\subsubsection{New reported cases by day in the United
States}\label{new-reported-cases-by-day-in-the-united-states}}

0

20,000

40,000

60,000 cases

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

New cases

7-day average

Note: The seven-day average is the average of a day and the previous six
days of data.

\hypertarget{new-reported-deaths-by-day-in-the-united-states}{%
\subsubsection{New reported deaths by day in the United
States}\label{new-reported-deaths-by-day-in-the-united-states}}

0

1,000

2,000 deaths

March

April

May

June

July

Aug.

Many deaths from unspecified days

New deaths

7-day average

These are days with a data reporting anomaly. Read more
\protect\hyperlink{anomaly-notes}{here}.

The New York Times has found that official
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/28/us/coronavirus-death-toll-total.html}{tallies
in the United States} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{in
more than a dozen other countries} have undercounted deaths during the
coronavirus outbreak because of limited testing availability.

The New York Times is engaged in a comprehensive effort to track the
details of every coronavirus case in the United States, collecting
information from federal, state and local officials around the clock.
The numbers in this article are being updated several times a day based
on the latest information our journalists are gathering from around the
country. The Times has
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/coronavirus-county-data-us.html?action=click\&module=Spotlight\&pgtype=Homepage}{made
that data public} in hopes of helping researchers and policymakers as
they seek to slow the pandemic and prevent future ones.

The Times's data collection for this page is based on reports from state
and local health agencies, a process that is unchanged by
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/trump-cdc-coronavirus.html}{the
Trump administration's new requirement} that hospitals bypass the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and send all patient
information to a central database in Washington.

See our
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{maps
tracking the coronavirus outbreak around the world}.

\hypertarget{the-places-hit-hardest}{%
\subsection{The places hit hardest}\label{the-places-hit-hardest}}

The coronavirus has left no state unscathed. But its impact has been
wildly uneven.

In New York and California, the states with the most known cases, more
than 847,000 people have had the coronavirus. In some less populous
states, including Vermont and Hawaii, there are fewer than 2,500
patients. And in a handful of remote counties, there has been not even
one positive test.

The nation's most populous places have all suffered tremendously. In
Cook County, Ill., which includes Chicago, more than 4,800 people have
died. In Los Angeles County, Calif., at least 166,000 people have had
the virus. And in New York City, about one of every 370 residents has
died.

But unlike in the early days of the pandemic, it is not so simple to say
that big cities have been hit hardest. On a per capita basis, many of
the places with the most cases have been small cities and rural
communities in the Midwest and South.

And in some Sun Belt cities that were spared the worst of the pandemic
in April, case and death numbers have surged to fearsome levels in
recent weeks. In the county that includes McAllen, Texas, more than 85
percent of all coronavirus deaths have been announced since the start of
July. . The Miami, Phoenix and Los Angeles areas have at times averaged
more than 2,000 cases per day.

\hypertarget{hot-spots-counties-with-the-highest-number-of-recent-cases-per-resident}{%
\subsubsection{Hot spots: Counties with the highest number of recent
cases per
resident}\label{hot-spots-counties-with-the-highest-number-of-recent-cases-per-resident}}

Show all

Note: Recent cases are from the last seven days.

\hypertarget{hundreds-of-thousands-of-cases-traced-to-clusters}{%
\subsection{Hundreds of thousands of cases traced to
clusters}\label{hundreds-of-thousands-of-cases-traced-to-clusters}}

Coronavirus outbreaks have been traced to funerals, fast food
restaurants, cruise ships and Navy vessels. But most of the biggest
known clusters have been in nursing homes, food processing plants and
correctional facilities, all places where people are packed in close
quarters with little opportunity for social distancing.

Coronavirus cases have been reported in more than 15,000 nursing homes
and other long-term care facilities, according to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{data
collected by The New York Times} from states, counties, the federal
government and facilities themselves. More than 335,000 residents and
employees have been infected in those homes, and more than 59,000 have
died. That means more than 40 percent of deaths from the virus in the
United States have been tied to nursing homes and other long-term care
facilities.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{We're
tracking the devastating effects of the coronavirus in more than 14,000
nursing homes across the country »}

``This disease creates the potential for a perfect storm in a long-term
care facility --- large groups of vulnerable people living together and
a highly transmissible virus that may not cause symptoms in those who
care for them,'' said Dr. Daniel Rusyniak, the chief medical officer for
Indiana's state social services agency.

In American jails and prisons, more than 100,000 people have been
infected and at least 802 inmates and correctional officers have died.
During interviews with dozens of inmates across the country, many said
they were frightened and frustrated by what prison officials have
acknowledged has been an uneven response to the virus.

``I am very concerned,'' said Adamu Chan, an inmate at San Quentin State
Prison in California, which has become one of the nation's largest
coronavirus clusters with more than 2,300 infections and 15 deaths.
``There's no way to social distance. We all eat together. We have a
communal bathroom. There's no way to address a public health issue in an
overcrowded facility.''

\begin{longtable}[]{@{}ll@{}}
\toprule
Cases connected to & Cases\tabularnewline
\midrule
\endhead
Marion Correctional Institution --- Marion, Ohio & 2,443 \tabularnewline
San Quentin State Prison --- San Quentin, Calif. & 2,435 \tabularnewline
Harris County jail --- Houston, Texas & 1,913 \tabularnewline
Pickaway Correctional Institution --- Scioto Township, Ohio & 1,794
\tabularnewline
Avenal State Prison --- Avenal, Calif. & 1,448 \tabularnewline
Trousdale Turner Correctional Center --- Hartsville, Tenn. & 1,382
\tabularnewline
North County jail --- Castaic, Calif. & 1,380 \tabularnewline
Columbia Correctional Institution --- Lake City, Fla. & 1,373
\tabularnewline
Ouachita River Unit prison --- Malvern, Ark. & 1,307 \tabularnewline
California Institution for Men --- Chino, Calif. & 1,184 \tabularnewline
\bottomrule
\end{longtable}

Show all

\hypertarget{about-the-data}{%
\subsection{About the data}\label{about-the-data}}

The Times has found the following reporting anomalies for the data on
this page:

June 25: New Jersey began reporting probable deaths.

June 30: New York City released deaths from earlier periods but did not
specify when they were from.

July 27: Texas began reporting deaths based on death certificates,
causing a one-day increase.

To see a detailed list of all reporting anomalies, visit the individual
state pages listed at the bottom of this page.

In data for the United States, The Times is now including cases and
deaths that have been identified by public health officials as probable
coronavirus patients. Some states and counties only report figures in
which a coronavirus infection was confirmed through testing. Because
confirmed cases are widely considered to be an undercount of the true
toll, some state and local governments have started identifying probable
cases and deaths using criteria that were developed by states and the
federal government.

\textbf{Confirmed cases and deaths} are counts of individuals whose
coronavirus infections were confirmed by a laboratory test.
\textbf{Probable cases and deaths} count individuals who did not have a
confirmed test but were evaluated using criteria developed by national
and local governments. Some governments are reporting only confirmed
cases, while others are reporting both confirmed and probable numbers.
And there is also another set of governments that are reporting the two
types of numbers combined without providing a way to separate the
confirmed from the probable. The Times is now using the total of
confirmed and probable counts when they are available individually or
combined. Otherwise only the confirmed count will be shown.

Governments often revise data or report a large increase in cases on a
single day without historical revisions, which can cause an irregular
pattern in the daily reported figures. The Times is excluding these
anomalies from seven-day averages when possible.

Read more about the methodology and download county-level data for
coronavirus cases in the United States from The New York Times
\href{https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data}{on GitHub}.

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus}{%
\subsection{Tracking the Coronavirus}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{World}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/21/world/coronavirus-missing-deaths.html}{World
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/23/upshot/five-ways-to-monitor-coronavirus-outbreak-us.html}{U.S.
  Cities}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/05/05/us/coronavirus-death-toll-us.html}{U.S.
  Deaths}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-testing.html}{Testing}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-nursing-homes.html}{Nursing
  homes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/nyregion/new-york-city-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York City}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/states-reopen-map-coronavirus.html}{Reopening}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html}{Vaccines}
\end{itemize}

Countries

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/brazil-coronavirus-cases.html}{Brazil}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/canada/canada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Canada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/france-coronavirus-cases.html}{France}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/germany-coronavirus-cases.html}{Germany}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{India}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/italy-coronavirus-cases.html}{Italy}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/americas/mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/spain-coronavirus-cases.html}{Spain}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/europe/united-kingdom-coronavirus-cases.html}{U.K.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{United
  States}
\end{itemize}

State by state

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alabama-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alabama}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/alaska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Alaska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arizona-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arizona}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/arkansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Arkansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/colorado-coronavirus-cases.html}{Colorado}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/connecticut-coronavirus-cases.html}{Connecticut}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/delaware-coronavirus-cases.html}{Delaware}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/florida-coronavirus-cases.html}{Florida}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/georgia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Georgia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{Hawaii}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/idaho-coronavirus-cases.html}{Idaho}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{Illinois}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/indiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Indiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/iowa-coronavirus-cases.html}{Iowa}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kansas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kansas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/kentucky-coronavirus-cases.html}{Kentucky}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/louisiana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Louisiana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maine-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maine}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/maryland-coronavirus-cases.html}{Maryland}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{Massachusetts}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/michigan-coronavirus-cases.html}{Michigan}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/minnesota-coronavirus-cases.html}{Minnesota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/mississippi-coronavirus-cases.html}{Mississippi}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/missouri-coronavirus-cases.html}{Missouri}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{Montana}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nebraska}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/nevada-coronavirus-cases.html}{Nevada}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-hampshire-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Hampshire}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Jersey}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-mexico-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  Mexico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
  York}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/north-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{North
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/ohio-coronavirus-cases.html}{Ohio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oklahoma}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/oregon-coronavirus-cases.html}{Oregon}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/pennsylvania-coronavirus-cases.html}{Pennsylvania}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{Puerto
  Rico}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{Rhode
  Island}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-carolina-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Carolina}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{South
  Dakota}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/tennessee-coronavirus-cases.html}{Tennessee}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/texas-coronavirus-cases.html}{Texas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/utah-coronavirus-cases.html}{Utah}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/vermont-coronavirus-cases.html}{Vermont}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/washington-dc-coronavirus-cases.html}{Washington,
  D.C.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/west-virginia-coronavirus-cases.html}{West
  Virginia}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wisconsin-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wisconsin}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/wyoming-coronavirus-cases.html}{Wyoming}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{what-you-can-do}{%
\subsection{What you can do}\label{what-you-can-do}}

Experts'
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/06/02/health/coronavirus-profile-covid.html}{understanding
of how the Covid-19 works is growing.} It seems that there are
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/02/health/coronavirus-how-it-spreads.html}{four
factors that most likely play a role}: how close you get to an infected
person; how long you are near that person; whether that person expels
viral droplets on or near you; and how much you touch your face
afterwards.

You can help reduce your risk and do your part to protect others by
following some
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/prepare-for-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&module=styln-coronavirus\&variant=show®ion=TOP_BANNER\&context=storyline_menu\#link-56871453}{basic
steps}:

Keep your distance from others. Stay at least six feet away from people
outside your household as much as possible.

Wash your hands often. Anytime you come in contact with a surface
outside your home, scrub with soap for at least 20 seconds, rinse and
then dry your hands with a clean towel.

Avoid touching your face. The virus primarily spreads when contaminated
hands touch our nose or mouth or eyes. Try to keep your hands away from
your face unless you have just recently washed them.

Wear a mask outside your home. A mask protects others from any potential
infection from you. The more people who wear masks, the more we all stay
safer.

Here's a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html}{complete
guide on how you can prepare} for the coronavirus outbreak.

Note: Data are based on reports by states and counties at the time of
publication. Local governments may revise reported numbers as they get
new information. Some deaths may be reported by officials in two
different jurisdictions. When possible, deaths have been reported here
in the jurisdiction where the death occurred.

*Cases in New York City, Kansas City, Mo., and Joplin, Mo., each of
which span multiple counties, are grouped together. Cases in a state
that have been reported without a specific county are listed as county
``unknown.''

Population and demographic data from Census Bureau.

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sarah-almukhtar}{Sarah Almukhtar},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/aliza-aufrichtig}{Aliza Aufrichtig},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-bloch}{Matthew Bloch}, Julia
Calderone, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/keith-collins}{Keith
Collins}, Matthew Conlen, Lindsey Cook, Gabriel Gianordoli,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/amy-harmon}{Amy Harmon},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rich-harris}{Rich Harris},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/adeel-hassan}{Adeel Hassan},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jon-huang}{Jon Huang}, Danya Issawi,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/danielle-ivory}{Danielle Ivory},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kk-rebecca-lai}{K.K. Rebecca Lai}, Alex
Lemonides, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/richard-a-oppel-jr}{Richard A.
Oppel Jr.}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jugal-k-patel}{Jugal K.
Patel}, Julie Walton Shaver,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/anjali-singhvi}{Anjali Singhvi},
Charlie Smart, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mitch-smith}{Mitch
Smith}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/derek-watkins}{Derek Watkins},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/timothy-williams}{Timothy Williams},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/jin-wu}{Jin Wu} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/karen-yourish}{Karen Yourish}. ~~·~~
Reporting was contributed by Jordan Allen, Jeff Arnold,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ian-austen}{Ian Austen},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/mike-baker}{Mike Baker},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ellen-barry}{Ellen Barry}, Samone
Blair, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Aurelien Breeden, Elisha Brown, Emma
Bubola, Maddie Burakoff, Alyssa Burr, Christopher Calabrese, Sarah
Cahalan, Zak Cassel, Robert Chiarito, Matt Craig, Yves De Jesus, Brendon
Derr, Brandon Dupré, Melissa Eddy, John Eligon, Timmy Facciola, Bianca
Fortis, Matt Furber, Robert Gebeloff,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/matthew-goldstein}{Matthew Goldstein},
Grace Gorenflo, Rebecca Griesbach, Lauryn Higgins, Josh Holder, Jake
Holland, Jon Huang, Anna Joyce, Ann Hinga Klein, Jacob LaGesse, Alex
Lim, Patricia Mazzei, Jesse McKinley, Miles McKinley, K.B. Mensah, Sarah
Mervosh, Jacob Meschke, Lauren Messman, Andrea Michelson, Jaylynn
Moffat-Mowatt, Steven Moity, Paul Moon, Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Anahad
O'Connor, Ashlyn O'Hara, Azi Paybarah, Elian Peltier, Sean Plambeck,
Elisabetta Povoledo, Cierra S. Queen, Savannah Redl, Scott Reinhard,
Thomas Rivas, Frances Robles, Natasha Rodriguez, Alison Saldanha,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kai-schultz}{Kai Schultz}, Alex
Schwartz, Emily Schwing, Libby Seline, Sarena Snider, Brandon Thorp,
Alex Traub, Maura Turcotte, Tracey Tully, Lisa Waananen Jones, Amy
Schoenfeld Walker, Jeremy White and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/sameer-yasir}{Sameer Yasir}. ~~·~~ Data
acquisition and additional work contributed by Will Houp, Andrew Chavez,
Michael Strickland, Tiff Fehr, Miles Watkins,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/josh-williams}{Josh Williams}, Albert
Sun, Shelly Seroussi, Nina Pavlich, Carmen Cincotti, Ben Smithgall,
Andrew Fischer, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/rachel-shorey}{Rachel
Shorey}, \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi}, Alastair Coote, Steven Speicher, Hugh Mandeville, Robin
Berjon, Thu Trinh, Carolyn Price, James G. Robinson, Phil Wells, Yanxing
Yang, Michael Beswetherick, Michael Robles, Nikhil Baradwaj, Ariana
Giorgi and Bella Virgilio.

\textbf{Correction:}~July 20, 2020

The map key in an earlier version of this article was mislabeled. The
key showed the average number of new cases in each county per capita per
day, not the total number of cases per capita in the previous seven
days.

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
