Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}1 Million Primary Ballots
Were Mailed Late, Postal Service Watchdog Says

\url{https://nyti.ms/3gOPQhb}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late-postal-service-watchdog-says}{%
\section{1 Million Primary Ballots Were Mailed Late, Postal Service
Watchdog
Says}\label{1-million-primary-ballots-were-mailed-late-postal-service-watchdog-says}}

The findings underscore deep concerns about whether the agency will be
able to process what is expected to be a significant increase in mail-in
votes for the presidential election.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01dc-postal1/merlin_174638457_465de7f2-00c9-4cf5-9ca2-aa6c91724f14-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/luke-broadwater}{Luke
Broadwater}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- More than one million mail-in ballots were sent late to
voters during the 2020 primary elections, an internal Postal Service
audit found, underscoring deep concerns about whether the agency has the
ability to process what is expected to be a major increase in mail-in
votes for the presidential election in November.

In a survey of mail-in ballots sent during primaries from June 2 to Aug.
13, the agency's inspector general found that election boards across the
country had sent more than one million ballots during the final week of
the election, putting those votes at ``high risk'' of not making it back
to officials in time to be counted. Hundreds of ballots were mailed
after elections were over --- meaning they could not be counted --- and
only a small percentage used the proper tracking procedures, the audit
found.

With at least
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/11/us/politics/vote-by-mail-us-states.html}{three-quarters
of American voters eligible to receive a ballot in the mail} in 2020 ---
the most in history --- and about 80 million mail ballots expected to
flood election offices this fall amid the coronavirus pandemic, the
findings raised questions about whether the Postal Service would be able
to handle the crush of votes.

``While the Postal Service has made progress in preparing for the 2020
general election, there are concerns surrounding integrating stakeholder
processes with Postal Service processes to help ensure the timely
delivery of election and political mail,'' the auditors wrote.

The audit largely blamed local elections officials for mailing the
ballots at the last minute in response to requests from voters, but it
noted that the Postal Service should build ``strong relationships'' with
local elections officials to ensure that they adjust their deadlines.

The findings come at a time of heightened scrutiny of the Postal
Service, as President Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/24/us/politics/trump-vote-by-mail.html}{claims
without evidence} that voting by mail is fraudulent and Louis DeJoy, the
new postmaster general and an ally of Mr. Trump's, has made operational
changes that have coincided with a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html}{slowdown
in mail deliveries}. The situation has prompted widespread concern among
Democrats that the president is seeking to interfere with the mail to
bolster his re-election chances or sow distrust about the ultimate
result.

Mr. DeJoy has said that the agency is equipped to handle the demands of
the election. But for months, the Postal Service has warned states to
change their deadlines to avoid sending last-minute ballots to voters, a
practice that all but ensures that many ballots will never be counted.
More than 30 states require a ballot to be received by Election Day in
order to count, and no state allows a ballot postmarked after Election
Day to be processed.

An election expert testified before Congress last week that while some
states have changed their deadlines, more than 20 states had failed to
do so, risking the disenfranchisement of thousands of voters in the
general election.

The audit, released on the same day as the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/01/us/elections/results-massachusetts-primary-elections.html}{Massachusetts
primary election} that is expected to feature heavy voting by mail,
found the problems during primaries had been most pronounced in Kentucky
and New York, where a combined 628,000 ballots were sent out late.

In 17 states, the audit found, more than 589,000 ballots were sent from
election boards to voters after the state's ballot mailing deadline. In
11 states, more than 44,000 ballots were sent from election boards to
voters the day of or the day before the state's primary election.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/2020-election}{Election
2020 â€º}

\hypertarget{live-updates}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden}{Live
Updates}}{Live Updates}}\label{live-updates}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-returns-to-a-familiar-theme-denouncing-coronavirus-restrictions}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 1:18 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#trump-returns-to-a-familiar-theme-denouncing-coronavirus-restrictions}{Trump
returns to a familiar theme: denouncing coronavirus
restrictions.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#amid-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 12:53 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#amid-reports-of-a-campaign-cash-crunch-trump-says-he-may-fund-the-race-with-his-own-money}{Amid
reports of a campaign cash crunch, Trump says he may fund the race with
his own
money.}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#after-trump-suggests-trying-to-vote-by-mail-and-in-person-georgia-threatens-to-prosecute-voters-who-acted-similarly}{}

Sept. 8, 2020, 12:48 p.m. ET

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden\#after-trump-suggests-trying-to-vote-by-mail-and-in-person-georgia-threatens-to-prosecute-voters-who-acted-similarly}{After
Trump suggests trying to vote by mail and in person, Georgia threatens
to prosecute voters who acted similarly.}

One particularly troubling situation, auditors found, unfolded in
Pennsylvania, where 500 ballots were sent to voters the day after the
election.

The inspector general's audit also found that only 13 percent of ballots
were mailed with the recommended bar code tracking technology. The
investigators flagged longstanding problems with election boards failing
to maintain updated voter files, meaning voters' addresses were often
out of date.

Additionally, the audit found problems in Baltimore. Even though postal
officials there ``certified that they were clear of election and
political mail daily, our audit determined that political mail received
on May 12, 2020, sat unprocessed for five days, resulting in about
68,000 political mail mailpieces not delivered on time,'' the auditors
wrote. They said the mail was eventually processed, but much later than
it should have been.

Mr. DeJoy, who
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/general-louis-dejoy-postmaster.html}{built
a fortune} in the private sector, began putting cost-cutting measures in
place when he took over the Postal Service in June; mail delivery slowed
by as much as 8 percent. He
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{backed
off some of his service cuts} amid a firestorm of criticism and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/24/us/politics/postal-service-dejoy-testimony.html}{pledged
to Congress} last week that ``we will do everything in our power and
structure to deliver the ballots on time.''

David E. Williams, a Postal Service vice president in charge of
operations, wrote in response to the report that management ``largely
agrees with the audit's findings and recommendations, and we reiterate
our commitment to efficiently process the nation's political and
election mail, and to timely deliver such mail.''

The audit, dated Monday, is the second by the Postal Service inspector
general to examine mistakes made during the 2020 primary elections. Last
month, auditors focused on problems in Wisconsin, where hundreds of
ballots were left in tubs, unaccounted for, at the Milwaukee processing
and distribution center during the state's primary in April. About 160
ballots were erroneously returned to a local election office; another
390 had issues with the postmark, which led to confusion about whether
they could be counted, the inspector general found.

The agency's watchdog has also opened an inquiry into Mr. DeJoy in
response to Democrats in Congress who sought an investigation into his
operational changes and his personal finances, including his ownership
of stock in a Postal Service contractor.

In July, the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/18/us/politics/postal-service-suspends-changes.html}{Postal
Service warned} states that it might not be able to meet their deadlines
for delivering last-minute
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/26/us/politics/mail-in-voting-foreign-intervention.html}{mail-in
ballots}, urging those with tight schedules to require that residents
request ballots at least 15 days before an election --- rather than the
shorter periods currently allowed under the laws of many states. In
response, some states, including Pennsylvania and Michigan, have called
for extensions on counting late-arriving ballots in the election in
November.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The campaign
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{shifts
    to a higher gear this week}, with President Trump set to visit
    Florida and North Carolina today and Joseph R. Biden heading to
    Michigan tomorrow.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
