Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump Visits Kenosha,
Offering Support for Police With Little Mention of Shooting

\url{https://nyti.ms/3jMxDTt}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{race-and-america}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/george-floyd-protests-minneapolis-new-york-los-angeles?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=04ae5ba0-f281-11ea-ae9e-df40165d4ecf\&variant=undefined}{Race
and America}}{Race and America}}\label{race-and-america}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/04/nyregion/rochester-police-daniel-prude.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=04ae82b0-f281-11ea-ae9e-df40165d4ecf\&variant=undefined}{What
  Happened in Rochester, N.Y.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=04ae82b1-f281-11ea-ae9e-df40165d4ecf\&variant=undefined}{Trump
  Fact Check}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/portland-shooting-explained.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=04ae82b2-f281-11ea-ae9e-df40165d4ecf\&variant=undefined}{Portland
  Shooting}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/breonna-taylor-police-killing.html?name=styln-george-floyd\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=04ae82b3-f281-11ea-ae9e-df40165d4ecf\&variant=undefined}{Breonna
  Taylor's Life and Death}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-visits-kenosha-offering-support-for-police-with-little-mention-of-shooting}{%
\section{Trump Visits Kenosha, Offering Support for Police With Little
Mention of
Shooting}\label{trump-visits-kenosha-offering-support-for-police-with-little-mention-of-shooting}}

The president, touring the city that is the latest focal point of anger
over police shootings of Black Americans, called attention instead to
the street violence that he blamed on liberal politicians.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01dc-trump2/01dc-trump2-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-eligon}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-john-eligon/author-john-eligon-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/11/09/multimedia/author-julie-bosman/author-julie-bosman-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/13/multimedia/peter-baker/peter-baker-thumbLarge-v2.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/john-eligon}{John
Eligon}, \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/julie-bosman}{Julie
Bosman} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/peter-baker}{Peter Baker}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 1, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

KENOSHA, Wis. --- President Trump ventured into ground zero of the
nation's roiling debate over race and justice on Tuesday to stand in
defense of the police and to reject calls for changes in law enforcement
that have generated months of social unrest across the United States.

Traveling to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/us/politics/trump-kenosha-markey-kennedy.html}{Kenosha,
Wis.}, over the objections of the governor and mayor who feared his
presence would further inflame tensions, Mr. Trump offered support to
law enforcement officers and toured shops damaged by rioting that
followed last week's shooting of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/28/us/jacob-blake-shackles-assault.html}{Jacob
Blake}, a Black man who was struck seven times in the back by a white
police officer.

Mr. Trump never mentioned Mr. Blake's name nor spoke with his family,
brushing past the shooting and calling attention instead to the street
violence that he blamed on liberal politicians. He expressed more
empathy for police officers, saying that they have a ``tough job'' and
that occasionally some simply ``choke'' when put under ``tremendous
pressure'' in carrying out their duties.

``It's a dangerous job,'' Mr. Trump told several law enforcement
officials and Republican politicians at a high school in Kenosha. ``But
I have to say this to the police: The people of our country love you.''

Much of the small city shut down in anticipation of the president's
visit, with roads closed, commuter trains suspended, helicopters buzzing
overhead and armored cars deployed in the streets.

The calm was broken when woman in a pro-Trump hat and a man who said he
was a member of the Proud Boys, a far-right group known for inciting
violence at protests, showed up at a park that has been a hub for
rallies since Mr. Blake's shooting. As the police scrambled to separate
the two from about 100 protesters shouting at them, an officer sprayed a
chemical agent in the eyes of a documentary filmmaker.

The filmmaker, Ashley Dorelus, who is Black, said the officer, who is
white, had touched her breast as he was pushing protesters away, and she
swiped at his hand, after which the officer sprayed her. ``I said,
`Don't touch me,' so he took his pepper spray and sprayed me in the
face,'' she said, adding that her eyes were still burning. ``I should
not be subjected to this.''

Kenosha has become the latest focal point of anger over police shootings
of Black Americans and the eruptions that have followed. During his
visit, Mr. Trump left no doubt which side he was on, dismissing
suggestions of ``systemic racism'' and scolding reporters who asked
about it, saying they should concentrate instead on the violent
response.

``You have anarchists and you have the looters and you have the rioters
and you have all types, you have agitators, and that's what you should
be focusing on with your question,'' the president said.

He has sought to keep the focus on instances of chaos in the streets
while blaming ``radical left Democrats'' as he heads into the fall
campaign trailing the Democratic nominee, former Vice President Joseph
R. Biden Jr., in the polls. Mr. Trump prefers talking about law and
order to discussing the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{more
than 184,000 lives in the United States}.

In recent days, the president has cast the turmoil in increasingly
conspiratorial terms. In an interview on Monday night on Fox News, he
described mysterious people secretly pulling Mr. Biden's strings and
talked cryptically about a planeload of black-clad anarchists flying to
Washington last week to disrupt the Republican National Convention.

``People that you've never heard of'' are controlling Mr. Biden,
\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BqIKDb46Pfc}{he told the Fox News
host Laura Ingraham}. ``People that are in the dark shadows.''

``What does that mean?'' Ms. Ingraham asked. ``That sounds like
conspiracy theory.''

``No,'' Mr. Trump answered. ``People that you haven't heard of. They're
people that are on the streets. They're people that are controlling the
streets. We had somebody get on a plane from a certain city this
weekend, and in the plane, it was almost completely loaded with thugs
wearing these dark uniforms, black uniforms with gear and this and that.
They're on a plane.''

During the same interview, the president said police officers who shoot
civilians simply succumb to pressure as a golfer does attempting a putt.
``They choke,'' he said. ``Just like in a golf tournament, they miss a
three-foot.''

Asked about the supposed planeload of thugs before boarding Air Force
One bound for Kenosha on Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump was hardly any
clearer about where he was getting his information.

``I can probably refer you to the person and they could do it,'' he told
reporters. ``I'd like to ask that person if it was OK. But a person was
on a plane, said that there were about six people like that person, more
or less, and what happened is the entire plane filled up with the
looters, the anarchists, the rioters, people that obviously were looking
for trouble.''

The White House later pointed to a new federal investigation of the
financing of rioters. ``The president is referring to questions that
need answers such as who may be funding travel and lodging for organized
rioters,'' Sarah Matthews, a White House spokeswoman, said in a
statement.

Mr. Trump has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/trump-election.html}{long
embraced conspiracy theories}, but in recent days he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/30/us/politics/trump-protests-violence-coronavirus.html}{has
increasingly trafficked in dark ideas} from the world of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/what-is-qanon.html}{QAnon}
and other fringe elements. He promoted a supposed medical expert who
\href{https://www.thedailybeast.com/stella-immanuel-trumps-new-covid-doctor-believes-in-alien-dna-demon-sperm-and-hydroxychloroquine}{talks
about demon sperm} and alien DNA, and he
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/15/us/elections/trump-refrains-from-disavowing-qanon-conspiracy.html}{endorsed
a congressional candidate} who subscribes to QAnon theories of a
``\href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=11\&v=2rtYok4fdbQ\&feature=emb_title}{global
cabal of Satan-worshiping pedophiles}.'' Over the weekend, he reposted
Twitter messages asserting that street protests were actually
\href{https://twitter.com/OANN/status/1299045185758703616}{a secretly
organized ``coup attempt''} against him and that
\href{https://twitter.com/JennaEllisEsq/status/1299946852544999424}{the
death toll from the coronavirus had been vastly overstated}, a claim
that he repeated to Ms. Ingraham.

But Mr. Trump bristles when others offer conspiracy theories about him.
He lashed out on Tuesday after publication of ``Donald Trump v. the
United States,'' a book by Michael S. Schmidt, a New York Times
reporter. In the book, Mr. Schmidt writes that on the day last November
that Mr. Trump made an unannounced trip to Walter Reed National Military
Medical Center in Maryland, word went out for Vice President Mike Pence
to be on standby to take over temporarily if Mr. Trump had to undergo a
procedure requiring anesthesia.

Joe Lockhart, a White House press secretary under President Bill
Clinton,
\href{https://twitter.com/joelockhart/status/1300574701253734402?s=20}{then
posed a question on Twitter}: ``Did @realDonaldTrump have a stroke which
he is hiding from the American public?''

Mr. Trump fired back. ``It never ends!''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1300811758051954695}{the
president tweeted}. ``Now they are trying to say that your favorite
President, me, went to Walter Reed Medical Center, having suffered a
series of mini-strokes. Never happened to THIS candidate --- FAKE
NEWS.''

Mr. Trump, 74, instructed his White House physician, Dr. Sean Conley, to
release a statement backing him up. ``I can confirm that President Trump
has not experienced nor been evaluated for a cerebrovascular accident
(stroke), transient ischemic attack (mini stroke), or any acute
cardiovascular emergencies, as have been incorrectly reported in the
media,'' Dr. Conley said, falsely blaming news reports.

The president's campaign later said that Mr. Trump was responding to the
question in Mr. Lockhart's tweet, not to news reports, and followed up
by calling on CNN to fire Mr. Lockhart, a contributor, for ``knowingly
pushing a conspiracy theory about President Trump's health.'' Mr. Trump
has regularly pushed conspiracy theories about Mr. Biden's health as he
did about the health of Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic
presidential nominee.

Just last week, Mr. Trump suggested Mr. Biden was on drugs and should be
tested. Even Tuesday's campaign statement complaining about conspiracy
theories about Mr. Trump's health advanced one about Mr. Biden's by
describing him as ``somebody who truly has lost a step,'' part of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/us/politics/trump-campaign-biden-harris.html}{a
concerted effort by the president} to question his challenger's
cognitive ability.

Mr. Trump likewise repeated the unfounded claim about drug use by Mr.
Biden in the second part of his interview with Ms. Ingraham, which aired
on Tuesday night. ``He's on some kind of an enhancement, in my
opinion,'' the president said, basing it on nothing more than what he
called differences in Mr. Biden's performances in various primary race
debates.

Late Tuesday night, Mr. Trump also returned to the question of his own
health, tweeting that ``Mike Pence was never put on standby, \& there
were no mini-strokes.'' But even then, he could not keep his own
explanations straight. He wrote that his trip to Walter Reed
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1300983667561562118}{``was
to complete my yearly physical,''} contrary to how he explained it at
the time, when he said it was
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1195931893998456832}{``phase
one of my yearly physical''} that he would complete later.

During his visit to Kenosha, the president included a pastor for Mr.
Blake's mother in a round-table discussion but made little mention of
the shooting that touched off the unrest. ``I feel terribly for anybody
that goes through that,'' Mr. Trump said mildly when asked about Mr.
Blake. ``As you know, it's under investigation.''

Justin Blake, Jacob Blake's uncle, said later that he was not surprised
that Mr. Trump largely ignored his nephew, who remains in the hospital
partly paralyzed.

``That's our president,'' Justin Blake said. ``He's been that from Day 1
when he came down the stairs and he was calling Hispanics murderers.
He's had nothing but foul things to say about African-Americans, in
particular our women.''

Mr. Trump received a warmer reception from law enforcement officers.
``Thank you for being the president that likes law enforcement,''
Sheriff David Beth told him at the round table. ``On behalf of law
enforcement, I'm telling you the group that's here, I hope you could
feel the love that they have for you and everybody who came.''

The corner where Jacob Blake was shot turned into a festival on Tuesday,
led by family members and activists who wanted to promote community
healing. ``We know why Trump is here in Kenosha today,'' Tanya McLean,
an organizer, told hundreds who gathered. ``He is here to sow chaos and
fear. We reject these attempts to divide us.''

Instead of upheaval, the gathering had the feel of a carnival, complete
with bounce houses for children and the smell of grilled meat wafting
through the air. Booths offered coronavirus testing, voter registration
and reiki therapy while a D.J. played music.

The spot where Mr. Blake was shot was occupied by a white truck with a
sign that read, ``Think Big.''

But downtown, Black Lives Matter activists mixed with Trump supporters,
occasionally chanting in each other's faces and hurling insults.

``This is just ridiculous,'' said John Crisman, who came from nearby
Paddock Lake, Wis. ``I was just standing here with my sign and some old
lady started telling me that Black lives don't matter, all lives matter.
It's just disheartening to see all this.''

Several dozen fans of Mr. Trump wearing red Make America Great Again
caps cheered as his motorcade passed. Dan Dowd of Long Grove, Ill.,
dismissed the protesters' suggestion that conservatives were inciting
violence. ``The right is tolerant --- all the violence is coming from
the left,'' he said, motioning toward a parking lot of cars burned last
week during the unrest. ``There ought to be a way to express feelings
without burning businesses to the ground.''

John Eligon and Julie Bosman reported from Kenosha, and Peter Baker from
Washington. Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs contributed reporting from Kenosha.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
