Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world}{World}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world}{World}\textbar{}Coronavirus Live Updates: As U.S.
Stimulus Talks Near Collapse, Trump Eyes Executive Orders

\href{https://nyti.ms/33AlJqM}{https://nyti.ms/33AlJqM}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
Coronavirus Outbreak}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/world/covid-19-news.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-tips-advice.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{F.A.Q.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/08/07/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Markets
  \& Economy}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

LIVE UPDATES

Updated~

Aug. 7, 2020, 7:37 p.m. ET

Aug. 7, 2020, 7:37 p.m. ET

\hypertarget{coronavirus-live-updates-as-us-stimulus-talks-near-collapse-trump-eyes-executive-orders}{%
\section{Coronavirus Live Updates: As U.S. Stimulus Talks Near Collapse,
Trump Eyes Executive
Orders}\label{coronavirus-live-updates-as-us-stimulus-talks-near-collapse-trump-eyes-executive-orders}}

New York's governor said schools can reopen for in-person instruction,
but he left the details up to the districts. Africa surpasses a million
confirmed cases, though the real number may be higher.

Right Now

As stimulus negotiations between the White House and top Democrats
teetered on the brink of collapse, President Trump's advisers said they
would recommend that he bypass Congress and act on his own to provide
relief.

\hypertarget{heres-what-you-need-to-know}{%
\subsubsection{Here's what you need to
know:}\label{heres-what-you-need-to-know}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-232a7bee}{As the U.S. stimulus talks falter
  again, Trump's advisers say they would tell him to act on his own.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3f64a70a}{Cuomo says N.Y. schools can reopen
  in-person but leaves it up to districts to determine if, when and
  how.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-14e70066}{Thousands of cases went unreported
  in California when a computer server failed.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-25231883}{The U.S. economy added jobs last
  month, but only a small fraction of those lost in the spring.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-16eac8b3}{Africa reaches one million confirmed
  cases, although the true toll may be higher.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-6a490ffc}{An Indian vaccine maker gets a big
  dose of money.}
\item
  \protect\hyperlink{link-3edb9761}{Vietnam's latest outbreak is more
  infectious than its last, officials say.}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/business/07briefing-virus-dc/merlin_175437309_159f9c40-80e8-485d-b628-182ecd153499-videoSixteenByNine3000.jpg}

\hypertarget{section}{%
\subsection{}\label{section}}

As the U.S. stimulus talks falter again, Trump's advisers say they would
tell him to act on his own.

Crisis negotiations between the White House and top Democrats teetered
on the brink of collapse on Friday, as both sides said they remained
deeply divided on an economic recovery package and President Trump's
advisers said they would recommend that he bypass Congress and act on
his own to provide relief.

It was not clear what power Mr. Trump might have to move unilaterally to
extend jobless aid or otherwise redirect federal relief money as he sees
fit, since Congress controls spending. But the announcement by Mark
Meadows, the White House chief of staff, and Steven Mnuchin, the
Treasury secretary, that they were counseling him to do so reflected the
failure of 10 days of marathon talks to reach a bipartisan compromise to
pump more aid into the slowing economic recovery.

It came after another unproductive meeting between the administration
officials and Democratic leaders, which ended with no agreement and no
additional talks scheduled.

Democrats, who had earlier said they would be willing to lower their
spending demands to \$2 trillion from \$3.4 trillion, said the White
House, needed to return with a higher overall price tag, after Mr.
Trump's negotiators declined to accept that offer. Republicans have
proposed a \$1 trillion plan.

``The House is Democratic, they need a majority of Democratic votes in
the Senate,'' said Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the
minority leader, emerging with Speaker Nancy Pelosi after the meeting.
``Meet us in the middle --- for God's sake, please --- for the sake of
America, meet us in the middle.''

In a tweet, President Trump indicated he was ready to move on from the
talks. ``Pelosi and Schumer only interested in Bailout Money for poorly
run Democrat cities and states. Nothing to do with China Virus! Want one
trillion dollars. No interest. We are going a different way!''
\href{https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1291842540023558146?s=20}{he
wrote}.

Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Meadows demanded that Democrats agree to lower the
amount of aid for state and local governments, and provide more
specifics about how they were proposing to revive lapsed unemployment
benefits.

``There's both a top-line issue but also policy issues,'' Mr. Mnuchin
said after the meeting, which lasted more than an hour in Ms. Pelosi's
office. ``I don't want to speculate as to whether there is an agreement
or not. We will continue to try to get an agreement that's in the best
interest of the people, and that's why we're here.''

While the executive orders have not yet been finalized, Mr. Meadows said
it was likely that action would come over the weekend.

``This is not a perfect answer --- we'll be the first ones to say
that,'' he said. ``But it is all that we can do and all the president
can do within the confines of his executive power, and we're going to
encourage him to do it.''

Education Roundup

\hypertarget{section-1}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-1}}

Cuomo says N.Y. schools can reopen in-person but leaves it up to
districts to determine if, when and how.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/07/us/07virus-briefing-school3/merlin_175370388_796ea2a5-5388-4040-9adf-cf3c0d799e36-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Schools across New York
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/nyregion/cuomo-schools-reopening.html}{can
reopen for in-person instruction this fall}, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said
Friday, solidifying New York's role as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/nyc-schools-reopening.html}{one
of the few states in America} that has a coronavirus transmission rate
low enough to bring children back into classrooms --- not only in its
rural communities but also in the country's biggest city.

Just a few months after New York City became a global center of the
pandemic, the governor opened the door for millions of students across
the state to return to classrooms, even as most public school students
in the country will start the school year remotely.

Under the governor's announcement, schools can decide to open as long as
they are in a region where the average rate of positive tests is below 5
percent over a two- weeks period, based on reporting from all the
state's counties. Most of the state, including New York City, has
maintained a positivity rate of about 1 percent. Mayor Bill de Blasio
has said
\href{https://twitter.com/NYCMayor/status/1291777208953036804}{schools
can only open in the city} if the positivity rate is below 3 percent.

But Mr. Cuomo's announcement does not guarantee that school buildings in
the state's roughly 700 local districts will actually reopen in the
coming weeks. It is now up to local politicians and superintendents to
decide whether to reopen, and how to do so. Their in-person reopening
plans must also be approved by the state's education and health
departments in the coming weeks.

Though Mr. Cuomo
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/12/nyregion/schools-cuomo-de-blasio-nyc-coronavirus.html}{has
frequently wielded his power} over school closures throughout the
pandemic, in some cases contradicting Mr. de Blasio on key decisions, he
has signaled that his role in the debate over reopening will be limited
to setting the threshold for a safe reopening, and unilaterally shutting
down schools if that threshold is reached.

The governor directed districts on Friday to publicly post their plans
for testing teachers and students after the school year begins --- a
demand from the teachers' union that New York City has not released
significant details on. Mr. Cuomo also asked all districts to post their
protocols for when someone in a school tests positive. Mr. de Blasio
outlined the city's plan for that last week: Just two cases in different
classrooms of the same school could force its closing for two weeks.

And Mr. Cuomo said school districts must hold more virtual meetings with
parents and teachers throughout August to answer questions.

Mr. Cuomo is leaving most of the other details about how to actually
reopen safely to individual school districts. Districts across the state
are tentatively planning to reopen late in August or early next month.
New York City, the nation's largest school district and the only major
district planning to reopen even part-time, is scheduled to start school
on Sept. 10.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/29/us/teacher-union-school-reopening-coronavirus.html}{Many
teachers} and parents across the state have expressed alarm about
returning to school buildings as the virus has spiked in other states.
But families across New York say they are desperate for schools and
child care centers to open so that they can return to work. About 75
percent of New York City students are low-income and many of their
parents are essential workers or employees who cannot work from home.

New York City and other districts across the state are still finalizing
strategies that allow for social distancing in school buildings, trying
to find enough nurses to staff school buildings, and upgrading or
replacing ventilation systems in classrooms.

Here are some other key education developments:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  In some places in the United States, including Georgia, Indiana,
  Mississippi and Tennessee, \textbf{students have begun some school as
  early as last week}, with quarantines quickly following. The Times
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/coronavirus-students.html}{spoke
  to students about their experiences}. One who tested positive said she
  ``was a little scared.''
\item
  The health officer of \textbf{Montgomery County, Md.}, Dr. Travis
  Gayles, backed away from a confrontation with Gov. Larry Hogan on
  Friday, rescinding an order prohibiting private schools from in-person
  instruction. The governor had countermanded the order on Monday and
  the issue was headed to federal court. A statement by the county said
  Dr. Gayles continued to ``strongly advise schools against in-person
  learning.''
\item
  \textbf{Johns Hopkins University} and \textbf{Princeton University}
  became the latest academic institutions to rescind plans for in-person
  classes this fall, announcing that they would instead conduct
  undergraduate instruction entirely online because of the virus's
  effect on their surrounding communities. 
\item
  \textbf{Hannah Watters}, the 15-year-old student at North Paulding
  High School in Dallas, Ga., who received a five-day suspension for
  posting photos of packed hallways on the first day back to classes,
  said Friday that administrators had
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/north-paulding-high-school-coronavirus-georgia.html}{lifted
  the suspension}. ``My mom has always told me that she won't get mad at
  us if we get in trouble as long as it's `good trouble,''' Hannah said
  in an interview, invoking the famous phrase of Representative John
  Lewis, the civil rights leader who was laid to rest in Atlanta last
  week.
\item
  Some educators say students and parents can expect much less in-person
  instruction than was initially hoped for this school year. Teachers
  are finding themselves unprepared, leading to questions about whether
  schools
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/remote-learning-fall-2020.html}{missed
  a chance
  to}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/remote-learning-fall-2020.html}{fix
  remote learning}.}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{tracking-the-coronavirus-}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{Tracking
the Coronavirus
›}}{Tracking the Coronavirus ›}}\label{tracking-the-coronavirus-}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{Where cases are \textbf{rising}
fastest}{Where cases are rising fastest}}\label{where-cases-are-rising-fastest}}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/oklahoma-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Okla.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/nebraska-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Neb.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/puerto-rico-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

P.R.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/illinois-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Ill.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/montana-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mont.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

S.D.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/hawaii-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Hawaii
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/rhode-island-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

R.I.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/massachusetts-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

Mass.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{}

N.J.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html}{}

\hypertarget{us-hot-spots-}{%
\subsubsection{U.S. hot spots ›}\label{us-hot-spots-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/4bed270c23ef9de47f09e0fb6695b0a7ac842ed6/images/orphan_usa-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{}

\hypertarget{worldwide-}{%
\subsubsection{Worldwide ›}\label{worldwide-}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/03/16/coronavirus-maps/4bed270c23ef9de47f09e0fb6695b0a7ac842ed6/images/orphan_world-threeByTwoSmallAt2X.png}

\hypertarget{section-2}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-2}}

Thousands of cases went unreported in California when a computer server
failed.

Image

A coronavirus testing site in San Jose, Calif., last week.Credit...Jim
Wilson/The New York Times

As California surpassed 10,000 coronavirus deaths this week, the head of
the state's Health and Human Services Agency, Dr. Mark Ghaly, said a
breakdown in the main disease reporting system had undercounted as many
as 300,000 test results.

``Our data system failed, and that failure led to inaccurate case
numbers,'' Dr. Ghaly said.

The malfunctions in the data system were compounded in recent days by
huge backlogs in testing --- in some California counties results are
taking more than two weeks to process --- muddying the overall picture
of the virus's progression in the nation's most populous state.

The breakdown dates to July 25, when a server failed, and the agency
separately stopped receiving data from one of the largest labs in the
state, Dr. Ghaly said. The missing data, which could amount to thousands
of positive test results not previously recorded, would be added to the
system within days, he said.

With well over 500,000 cases and 10,042 deaths,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/california-coronavirus-cases.html}{California}
has the third highest coronavirus death toll in the United States,
behind
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
York}, which has had more than 32,000 deaths, and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/new-jersey-coronavirus-cases.html}{New
Jersey} with over 15,000, according to a New York Times database. On a
per capita basis, California ranks 29th in reported coronavirus deaths.

Despite the undercounting of cases, officials say they believe the
overall encouraging trends reported by Gov. Gavin Newsom earlier in the
week still hold. Mr. Newsom had reported a decline of more than 20
percent in the seven-day average of cases.

``We believe that the trend has been stabilizing and coming down,'' Dr.
Ghaly said, an assessment partly based on hospitalization rates, which
are calculated using separate data systems.

\hypertarget{section-3}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-3}}

The U.S. economy added jobs last month, but only a small fraction of
those lost in the spring.

Image

Madeline Crowe, right, serves a customer at a sporting goods store in
downtown Oxford, Miss., on Wednesday.Credit...Rory Doyle for The New
York Times

The American economy gained **** 1.8 million jobs last month, even as
the coronavirus surged in many parts of the country and renewed
restrictions caused some businesses to close for a second time.

Still, the increase reported Friday by the Labor Department was well
below the 4.8 million jump in jobs in June and a sign that momentum is
slowing after a burst of economic activity in late spring. The
unemployment rate fell to 10.2 percent.

``The easy hiring that was done in May and June has been exhausted,''
said Michelle Meyer, head of U.S. economics at Bank of America. ``With
many companies not running at full capacity, it becomes harder to get
that incremental worker back in.''

The gain of 1.8 million jobs is heartening but represents only a small
fraction of the 22 million jobs lost in March and April, when all but
essential businesses closed.

The report from the Labor Department follows the expiration of federal
supplemental unemployment benefits of \$600 a week late last month,
payments that kept many households afloat while buoying the economy.

\hypertarget{section-4}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-4}}

Africa reaches one million confirmed cases, although the true toll may
be higher.

Image

Family members carry the remains of a victim of coronavirus in
Johannesburg, South Africa last month. More than half of the confirmed
cases in Africa have been reported in South Africa.Credit...Kim
Ludbrook/EPA, via Shutterstock

Africa has passed \href{https://africacdc.org/covid-19/}{the milestone
of one million confirmed cases of the virus}, despite efforts by many
governments to keep people at home at great cost to their livelihoods.
The continent has reported at least 22,000 deaths.

The spread of the virus has happened more slowly than some experts
anticipated, although most African countries have low levels of testing.
They have relatively few deaths, too, according to the official numbers,
something often attributed to their large numbers of young people.

``It took Africa nearly five months to hit 500,000 Covid-19 cases, but
about a month to double that number,'' said Patrick Youssef, the
regional director for Africa of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, in a statement.

Governments locked down early, but quickly realized that people did not
have enough money to stay home and that if they did not ease
restrictions, millions would suffer.

The actual one million caseload may have been reached on the continent
weeks or even months ago, hidden by extremely low rates of testing for
the virus. Also, fear of the stigma associated with being diagnosed with
the virus and a plethora of conspiracy theories that mean many doubt its
very existence have probably kept a number of infected people from
reporting their symptoms, experts said.

More than half the confirmed cases are in South Africa, the African
country hit hardest by far, and one that has done comparatively
extensive testing.

Dr. Caroline Tatua, a senior health coordinator with the International
Rescue Committee, said the lack of testing --- and therefore reliable
data --- was hampering countries' efforts to fight the virus.

``We are hitting a million, but we know that that doesn't get close to
the true picture of what we are really facing,'' she said in an
interview. ``Without knowing the true picture, we're not sure whether
the response we're mounting is sufficient, or what we should be doing.''

Indicators that the spread of the virus could be more extensive than
official figures suggest include increased mortality from respiratory
diseases and the high percentage of infected health workers.

\hypertarget{section-5}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-5}}

An Indian vaccine maker gets a big dose of money.

Image

Technicians work on the vaccine assembly line at Serum Institute in
Pune, India.Credit...Atul Loke for The New York Times

The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine maker and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/asia/coronavirus-vaccine-india.html}{one
that is poised to play an instrumental role} in mass-producing a
coronavirus vaccine, just received a huge injection of cash.

The\href{https://www.gatesfoundation.org/}{Bill \& Melinda Gates
Foundation} will provide \$150 million to cover some of the Serum
Institute's costs to scale up capacity to mass-produce
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?action=click\&module=RelatedLinks\&pgtype=Article}{two
potential coronavirus vaccines}. A private, family-run company, the
Serum Institute had been casting about for help as it began readying its
high-speed assembly lines.

The partnership with the Bill \& Melinda Gates Foundation and Gavi, a
global vaccine alliance, calls for Serum to produce 100 million doses of
coronavirus vaccines for India and low- and middle-income countries and
sell them at no more than \$3 a dose.

``It's just a
start,''\href{https://www.gavi.org/news/media-room/100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-available-low-and-middle-income-countries-2021}{Bill
Gates said in a statement}.

More than 50 years ago,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/01/world/asia/coronavirus-vaccine-india.html}{the
Serum Institute started out as a horse farm} that later branched into
processing horse serum for low-cost vaccines. It now produces 1.5
billion doses of many different vaccines each year using high-speed
assembly lines that can crank out 500 doses a minute. The Poonawalla
family that controls the company has become one of the richest in India.

The company has teamed up with several vaccine developers, including
AstraZeneca and Novavax, to mass produce vaccine candidates that are
still in trial phases.

``It is important to make sure that the most remote and poorest
countries of the world have access,'' said Adar Poonawalla, Serum's
chief executive.

He said the partnership with the Gates foundation and Gavi would help
the effort to ``save the lives of millions of people from this dreadful
disease.''

Global Roundup

\hypertarget{section-6}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-6}}

Vietnam's latest outbreak is more infectious than its last, officials
say.

Image

Medical specialists administer COVID-19 tests to residents in Da Nang,
Vietnam on Monday.Credit...Trinh Quoc Dung/VNA, via Reuters

The latest coronavirus outbreak in Vietnam, which followed more than
three months with no confirmed cases of local transmission, is driven by
a variant of the coronavirus that is far more infectious than the
variants that previously circulated in the country, health officials
said.

Scientists have
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/science/coronavirus-mutation-genetics-spike.html}{urged
caution} in concluding that a variant of the virus is more infectious.
While some believe a mutation circulating widely since February gave it
a biological edge, others believe more evidence is needed to
differentiate any potential effect from other factors like lockdowns,
travel patterns and luck.

Vietnamese officials pointed to the fast spread of the country's most
recent outbreak. It had gone months without a single death from the
coronavirus, and its fast, firm reaction to the virus was praised for
keeping infections in check. But an outbreak that appears to have
originated in the central city of Danang last month has sent the virus
to other regions.

On Friday, health officials announced that new cases had been found in
two more provinces and that about 300 infections were tied to the Danang
outbreak.

Research by the Vietnamese C.D.C. and a local medical research institute
found that while the viral mutation detected in Danang did not lead to
more severe disease, it was more infectious. Each person could spread
the new variant to five or six people, rather than one or two people
with earlier variants, Nguyen Thanh Long, the acting health minister,
said at a government meeting.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/science/coronavirus-mutation-genetics-spike.html}{Some}
\href{https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.07.31.20166082v1}{research}
has suggested that a variant of the virus may infect more people. But
the size of any effect is unknown, and other researchers have argued
that
\href{https://www.cell.com/cell/pdf/S0092-8674(20)30817-5.pdf}{current
evidence is insufficient} to make such a claim.

Vietnam has now recorded 10 deaths from the coronavirus, although the
total caseload remains below 900. Domestic tourists who visited Danang
are undergoing mass testing, and Danang officials plan to test every
city resident for the virus.

In other news from around the world:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Beijing} offered to send a team of 60 medical officials from
  mainland China to Hong Kong to help expand testing across the city.
  But
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/business/hong-kong-china-coronavirus-testing.html}{it
  is being viewed with skepticism by some residents}, who worry about
  the growing reach of the Chinese Communist Party and the testing
  project's potential implications for their privacy.
\item
  Tuesday's explosion in \textbf{Beirut} destroyed 17 containers of
  personal protective equipment, leaving Lebanon's already faltering
  health system even more hampered in its fight against the coronavirus.
  The World Health Organization has made an initial \$15 million appeal
  for emergency trauma and humanitarian health support. UNICEF warned
  that the most active community transmission is now the area around the
  blast site, where social distancing is difficult, Reuters reported.
\item
  \textbf{Spain} should conduct an independent evaluation of what went
  wrong in its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, according to a
  group of 20 Spanish medical experts, who made their demand in a letter
  published by The Lancet on Thursday.
\item
  \textbf{India} has recorded more than two million coronavirus
  infections. The country has the third-largest coronavirus caseload ---
  2,027,000 cases and 41,585 deaths --- after the United States and
  Brazil. India is now racking up more than 60,000 cases per day and
  over 886 deaths, according to
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/asia/india-coronavirus-cases.html}{a
  New York Times database} and the country's
  \href{https://www.mohfw.gov.in/}{health ministry}. Many prominent
  Indian politicians, including the powerful home minister, Amit Shah,
  and B.S. Yediyurappa, the chief minister of Karnataka State, have
  recently been hospitalized after testing positive for the virus.
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \textbf{Norway's} prime minister said on Thursday that the country
  would postpone the easing of coronavirus restrictions and reimpose
  others after an uptick in cases, Reuters reported. Prime Minister Erna
  Solberg said the goal was to prevent a full lockdown. ``We need to
  slow down now to avoid a full stop down the road,'' Ms. Solberg said.
  Norway has had 9,468 confirmed cases of the virus and 256 deaths,
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/world/coronavirus-maps.html}{according
  to a New York Times database}.
\item
  \textbf{South Korea}'s Health Ministry said the country would lift a
  ban on travelers from the central Chinese province of Hubei, the first
  epicenter of the pandemic, starting on Monday.
\end{itemize}

U.S. ROUNDUP

\hypertarget{section-7}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-7}}

`Boxed into a corner,' a South Dakota city braces for thousands to
attend a motorcycle rally.

Image

Visitors walk by motorcycles on Main Street during on the first day of
the Sturgis Motorcycle Rally in Sturgis, SD on Friday.The 10-day rally,
may be the country's largest public gathering since the pandemic
began.Credit...Benjamin Rasmussen for The New York Times

For most of the year, Sturgis, S.D., is a relatively quiet city of 7,000
residents tucked beside a 1.2 million-acre forest, with a motorcycle
museum as its signature attraction. But each summer, Sturgis transforms
as bikers descend for an immense motorcycle rally.

This year's festival may attract about 250,000 people despite an uptick
in virus cases across the state, city officials say, leading to fears it
could become a super-spreader event.

The 10-day rally, which begins Friday,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/06/us/sturgis-motorcyle-rally-coronavirus.html}{may
be the country's largest public gathering since the pandemic began}, and
it comes amid widespread opposition. More than 60 percent of residents
favored postponing the event, according to a city-sponsored survey.

``We should have postponed or canceled the rally last March,'' said
Terry Keszler, a Sturgis City Council member, echoing the concerns that
have divided his community.

City officials faced pressure from businesses, people outside the city
and threats of litigation, Mr. Keszler said. Still, they cut back on
advertising and canceled city-sponsored events, including the opening
ceremony.

Over the past week, there has been an average of
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/south-dakota-coronavirus-cases.html}{84
coronavirus cases a day} in South Dakota, a 31 percent increase over the
previous two weeks. And some say the surge might grow worse: The city
plans to offer coronavirus testing for its residents once the rally
concludes on Aug. 16. South Dakota is among several states that did not
put in place a lockdown or a mandatory mask requirement.

Little could be done to stop the event, said Doreen Allison Creed, the
Meade County commissioner who represents Sturgis. Ms. Creed said the
county lacked the authority to shut down the rally because much of it
takes place on state-licensed campgrounds.

``We are either going to be a great success story or failure,'' Ms.
Creed said.

In other news around the United States:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  The governor of \textbf{Massachusetts} said on Friday that the state
  will reduce the number of people allowed at outdoor gatherings to 50
  people from 100, starting Tuesday. Indoor gatherings remain limited to
  25. The state will also
  \href{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kCGEj58c2hM\&feature=youtu.be}{indefinitely
  postpone the next phase of its reopening plan.}

  Face coverings will now also be required where there are more than 10
  people from different households; Massachusetts has had a statewide
  order since May that requires face coverings in both indoor and
  outdoor public places where social distancing was not possible.
\item
  \textbf{Indiana} announced 1,245 new cases on Friday, the second day
  in a row the state has broken its record for single-day cases.
\item
  Officials in \textbf{Georgia} reported 87 new deaths on Friday, a
  single-day record.
\item
  \textbf{New York City's} mayor said Friday that so far about 200
  vehicles had been
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/nyregion/nyc-coronavirus-quarantine-checkpoints.html}{stopped
  at checkpoints set up this week to promote compliance} with the
  state's requirement for travelers from
  \href{https://coronavirus.health.ny.gov/covid-19-travel-advisory}{dozens
  of states to quarantine for 14 days}. Travelers who had spent time in
  those places
  \href{https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/counseltothemayor/downloads/Checkpoint-FAQs.pdf}{are
  asked to fill out}
  \href{https://forms.ny.gov/s3/Welcome-to-New-York-State-Traveler-Health-Form}{a
  required travel form} with their personal information.
\item
  In \textbf{Illinois}, the governor said Friday he is filing a set of
  emergency to give local health departments and law enforcement
  agencies ``more leeway''
  \href{https://www2.illinois.gov/IISNews/21906-Gov._Pritzker_Announces_Efforts_to_Protect_Illinois_Communities.pdf}{to
  enforce the state's mask mandate in businesses}.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{section-8}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-8}}

The pandemic has sharply curtailed investigations into accusations of
child abuse or neglect.

Image

A regional office for Los Angeles County Department of Children and
Family Services in Los Angeles, Calif., on August 5.Credit...Jenna
Schoenefeld for The New York Times

Since the start of the pandemic, child welfare workers in the United
States have been exempt from stay-at-home orders because they have the
legal responsibility to take emergency custody of abused children and,
when necessary, place them in foster care.

Yet leaders at the federal, state and local levels
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/07/us/virus-child-abuse.html}{have
pushed these workers to carry out their duties from home} as much as
possible to limit the virus's spread. The consequences are now rippling
across California, which has the
\href{https://edsource.org/2018/child-poverty-drops-in-california-but-is-still-the-nations-highest/596285}{highest
rate of child poverty} in the nation when the cost of living is taken
into account.

In Fresno County, about a third of the child welfare staff went on leave
as the pandemic spread. Even those who remained on the job generally did
work they could manage without leaving their homes.

The death of one infant in the county was discovered more than 30 days
after a hotline began receiving several tips raising urgent concerns
about the well-being of the baby and his twin brother. For the next
month, as the virus took off and California declared a stay-at-home
order in mid-March, the child welfare agency did almost nothing other
than asking the twins' mother to take a drug test, which she failed to
do, records show.

Child welfare officials have determined that the death was the result of
neglect.

The child welfare agency for Los Angeles County, the largest in the
nation, has locked its doors, and the agency's leaders sent home
virtually all employees.

Many abused children whom the agency deemed to be living under ``high''
or ``very high'' risk of renewed abuse were not visited for months,
records and interviews show. Before the pandemic, child welfare workers
in Los Angeles were required to at least try visiting children within
five days of a new abuse allegation. Now they are allowed to take up to
10 days to respond to most new reports of mistreatment.

``We are in completely uncharted territory, and it concerns me
greatly,'' said Bobby Cagle, the director of the child welfare agency
for Los Angeles County.

\hypertarget{section-9}{%
\subsection{}\label{section-9}}

Reporting was contributed by Aksaule Alzhan, Hannah Beech, Julia
Calderone, Emily Cochrane, Patricia Cohen, Stacy Cowley, Thomas Fuller,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jeffrey-gettleman}{Jeffrey
Gettleman}, **** Daniel Lempres, Dan Levin, Ruth Maclean, Tiffany May,
Sarah Mervosh, Raphael Minder, Amanda Rosa, Nelson D. Schwartz, Eliza
Shapiro, Karan Deep Singh, Matt Stevens, Jim Tankersley, Derrick Bryson
Taylor, Garrett Therolf, Mark Walker, Sui-Lee Wee, Lauren Wolfe, Adam
Wren and Elaine Yu.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
