Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Trump, Calling Himself `the
No. 1 Environmental President,' Green Washes His Record

\url{https://nyti.ms/2ZkCSld}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/11/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-calling-himself-the-no-1-environmental-president-green-washes-his-record}{%
\section{Trump, Calling Himself `the No. 1 Environmental President,'
Green Washes His
Record}\label{trump-calling-himself-the-no-1-environmental-president-green-washes-his-record}}

President Trump traveled to Florida to declare himself ``a great
environmentalist,'' extending a moratorium on offshore oil drilling that
his administration had moved to end.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/08/us/politics/08dc-trump-enviro/merlin_176737086_03aa1080-541e-4ff6-8dd9-933025c5824f-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/02/05/multimedia/author-annie-karni/author-annie-karni-thumbLarge.png}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/annie-karni}{Annie Karni}
and \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa
Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 8, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- President Trump, who has
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/04/climate/trump-paris-agreement-climate.html}{vowed
to exit the Paris Agreement} on climate change, loosened restrictions on
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/04/climate/trump-environment-coronavirus.html}{toxic
air pollution}, rolled back
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/22/climate/trump-environment-water.html}{clean
water protections} and removed climate change from a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/30/opinion/trump-climate-change.html}{list
of national security threats}, stood in front of supporters in Jupiter,
Fla., on Tuesday and declared himself ``a great environmentalist.''

Mr. Trump was speaking at an official presidential event, where he
endorsed a 10-year moratorium on oil and gas drilling off the state's
coastline as well as the Georgia and South Carolina coasts --- a feat of
political jujitsu, since
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/04/climate/trump-offshore-drilling.html}{his
administration is the one that proposed lifting the moratorium}.

(In 2018, the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/01/09/climate/trump-florida-offshore-drilling.html}{dropped
only Florida from a list of places} where it wanted to lift a moratorium
on virtually all offshore oil drilling after strong opposition from Rick
Scott, the state's Republican governor at the time.)

But the president's appearance in the battleground state he has adopted
as his own, where recent polls show him deadlocked with his Democratic
rival, Joseph R. Biden Jr., also doubled as a campaign stop where his
campaign advisers say he must win. It was an extraordinary attempt to
recast his environmental record in a state battered by hurricanes and
coastal flooding, where voters from both parties express widespread
concern about climate change.

Standing behind a podium with a presidential seal, Mr. Trump claimed,
with no evidence, that electing Mr. Biden would leave the environment
``permanently injured.''

``The left's agenda isn't about protecting the environment,'' he said.
``It is about punishing America.''

There are few other policy arenas where a rewrite of the past three and
a half years could be so jarring. Mr. Trump's portrayal of his
administration's response to the coronavirus pandemic has often strained
credulity. His claims of a legislative record second to no other
president have raised eyebrows. He has repeatedly made the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/05/us/politics/trump-black-african-americans-fact-check.html}{unbelievable
assertion} that he has done more for Black Americans than any president,
except perhaps Abraham Lincoln.

But the environment is in a category of its own, because in claiming the
mantle of environmentalism, Mr. Trump is in fact repudiating one of his
administration's undeniable policy accomplishments: the stunning
rollback in less than four years of environmental regulations that go
back decades, including not just Obama-era climate change rules but even
the National Environmental Policy Act, a bedrock law signed 50 years
ago, which he has moved to unilaterally weaken.

The president has called climate change a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2017/06/02/us/politics/climate-change-trump-hoax-scott-pruitt.html}{hoax},
weakened
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/02/climate/offshore-drilling-safety-rollback-deepwater-horizon.html}{oversight
of drilling} in federal waters,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/17/climate/alaska-oil-drilling-anwr.html}{opened
up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge} to oil and gas companies and
moved to repeal about
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html}{100
environmental regulations}.

Yet on Tuesday, he congratulated his administration for what he called
``our incredible record of natural conservation and environmental
protection.''

Offshore drilling is
\href{https://poll.qu.edu/florida/release-detail?ReleaseID=2605}{deeply
unpopular in Florida}, where communities worry that the industry could
hurt tourism along the state's pristine beaches. A number of Republican
leaders, including the Florida's two senators and governor, lauded the
announcement.

But Mr. Trump's event and inaccurate claims about his record drew swift
condemnation from environmental groups, as well as Mr. Biden.

``Failing to adequately fund Everglades restoration, attempting to sell
off our waters to corporate polluters and rolling back more than 100
environmental protections doesn't make you anything other than the worst
president ever for the environment and climate,'' said Ariel Hayes, the
political director of the Sierra Club. ``Voters in Florida and across
the country have watched Trump achieve this status for nearly four
years, and no amount of greenhouse gaslighting will change that.''

Mr. Biden responded on Twitter, noting that he was consistent in his
opposition to new offshore drilling. ``Just months ago, Donald Trump was
planning to allow oil and gas drilling off the coast of Florida,'' he
\href{https://twitter.com/JoeBiden/status/1303423093176774657}{tweeted}.
``Now, with 56 days until the election, he conveniently says that he
changed his mind. Unbelievable.''

Josh Stein, the attorney general of North Carolina, which also opposes
drilling off its coast and has sued to block it, said he was concerned
that the president was simply picking favorites in states with
Republican governors. North Carolina is a key swing state, like Florida,
but its Democratic governor is also up for re-election.

``There is no rational reason to have oil rigs off of the Outer Banks
but not off of Palm Beach,'' Mr. Stein said. ``Tourism and fisheries
generates billions of dollars in economic activity in North Carolina,
just as it does in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida.''

Mr. Trump's up-is-down claims about his environmental record --- he
touted himself as ``the No. 1 environmental president since Teddy
Roosevelt'' --- were the latest example of the gaslighting campaign he
is running to win over voters in battleground states by trying to ignore
or misrepresent his own record.

During the Republican National Convention last month, the president's
advisers featured more than a dozen Black speakers vouching for the
president's character. But there was
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/29/us/politics/rnc-trump-race-gender.html}{little
discussion of Black victims of police violence}, nor was there any
reckoning with the protests across the country all summer dealing with
systematic racism in the United States.

In an effort to win just a few more percentage points with Black voters
than the 8 percent he won four years ago, Mr. Trump has underscored his
support for changes to the criminal justice system. His hope is that
Black voters, as well as white suburban voters turned off by his
incendiary racial language, will focus on the First Step Act on criminal
justice while overlooking the rest of his record on race, advisers said.

The president last month signed into law the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/us/senate-national-parks-funding-bill.html}{Great
American Outdoors Act}, a conservation bill that guarantees maximum
annual funding for a federal program to acquire and preserve land for
public use. On Tuesday, he pointed to that one bill, passed in large
measure to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/08/us/politics/senate-public-lands.html}{bolster
two endangered Republican senators}, Steve Daines of Montana and Cory
Gardner of Colorado, hoping to avoid a broader examination of his
environmental record.

Mr. Trump also made inaccurate claims about his environmental
achievements.

For instance, he said his administration was ``strengthening standards
to prevent vulnerable children from being exposed to lead and copper and
drinking water, including in our schools.'' But experts have said the
Environmental Protection Agency's new lead standards would actually
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/10/10/climate/epa-lead-water-pipes.html}{slow
the replacement of pipes} and leave more children vulnerable to
exposure.

And while the president promoted his extension of the offshore drilling
moratorium, he assailed Mr. Biden's promises to curtail some hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, a method of extracting natural gas that
conservationists strongly oppose.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 11, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and President Trump put
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/11/us/politics/shanksville-trump-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{hostilities
    on hold today to travel to ground zero and then to Shanksville, Pa.,
    where they separately honored 9/11 victims}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
