Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{/section/us}{U.S.}\textbar{}The Chick's in the Mail? Rural America
Faces New Worries With Postal Crisis

\url{https://nyti.ms/3aJ1aKg}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/21ruralmail-01/merlin_175952811_335d2ded-d9ab-4f47-b678-8721685940b4-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{the-chicks-in-the-mail-rural-america-faces-new-worries-with-postal-crisis}{%
\section{The Chick's in the Mail? Rural America Faces New Worries With
Postal
Crisis}\label{the-chicks-in-the-mail-rural-america-faces-new-worries-with-postal-crisis}}

The Postal Service is crucial to farmers and rural areas that President
Trump won in 2016. Now, residents worry it is being dismantled.

Rhiannon Hampson, right, fed chickens on her farm in Thomaston, Maine,
on Thursday.~Farmers and other rural residents say they are particularly
vulnerable to the crisis roiling the postal system.Credit...Tristan
Spinski for The New York Times

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/jack-healy}{Jack Healy}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Aug. 21, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Rhiannon Hampson thought she would hear a cacophony of cheeping when she
went to her post office in coastal Maine to fetch a delivery of newly
hatched chicks. But the cardboard boxes addressed to her poultry farm
were silent.

``We could hear a few, very faint peeps,'' Ms. Hampson said. ``Out of
500, there were maybe 25 alive. They were staggering. It was terrible.''

This is what happens when the mail suddenly becomes unreliable in rural
towns and stretches of countryside where there are scant FedEx or UPS
deliveries, and where people rely on the post office as an irreplaceable
hub of commerce and connection.

Now, with delays raising fears that the United States Postal Service is
being hobbled by a combination of financial problems, politicization and
pandemic, farmers and other rural residents say they are particularly
vulnerable to the crisis roiling the postal system. And while President
Trump's own words have raised alarms that the problems are part of an
effort to keep Democrats from voting by mail, many of those being hurt
the most live in rural areas that overwhelmingly support the president.

``This is an attack on a tried-and-true service that rural America
depends on,'' said Chris Gibbs, a farmer in western Ohio who voted for
Mr. Trump in 2016, but this year
\href{https://ruralamerica2020.org/about-us/}{started an advocacy group}
arguing that the president has failed rural America. ``It pulls one more
piece of stability, predictability and reliability from rural America.
People don't like that.''

Across the country, rural residents already have been affected in
several ways.

Checks and plant shipments are delayed, and tracking them down can take
hours in rural towns without quick, reliable internet. Replacement parts
for farm machines are late in coming. Prescription refills are taking a
week or more to reach mailboxes, a particular threat because rural
communities are older than most of America.

On Native American reservations, among the country's most remote places,
families are driving five hours to get medicine and worry about being
disenfranchised in November.

Then there are the chicks.

For decades, postal carriers have delivered day-old chicks, ducklings
and all manner of plants and animals to small farmers and families with
backyard hen houses. Industrial-scale farms have enough money to truck
around their own animals or operate sprawling hatcheries. For everyone
else, the mail is how the chickens come home to roost.

Some chicks are getting lost in postal warehouses or spending days on
trucks, farmers said. Others are getting smothered or crushed in the
deluge of boxes created by America's coronavirus-induced online
ordering. One hatchery in Pennsylvania lost 3,000 chicks in a recent
shipment.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/08/21/us/21ruralmail-02/merlin_175953015_cf3efffb-4f1f-465c-9531-b7e9898276c0-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

``We just don't have any other options,'' Ms. Hampson said. ``There's
nothing sadder than seeing a box of tiny little fuzzy peeps and all of
them are D.O.A.''

Farmers said they were so afraid of losing more chicks in transit that
they were driving hundreds of miles to pick up shipments from
hatcheries. Ms. Hampson's parents and in-laws Pony Expressed their way
across Pennsylvania and New England to bring 15 boxes of just-hatched
turkey poults to their farm.

Other farms are telling customers not to expect products to come
quickly. In Beech Island, S.C., Jenks Farmer, who ships two-pound lily
bulbs across the country, has been getting bombarded with calls from
anxious customers whose flowers had not arrived. He shipped one bulb to
a customer in North Carolina, and a week later, the package was still
stuck in Shreveport, La.

``My business isn't political, but it depends on the economy and
political leadership,'' Mr. Farmer said. ``I don't have a leader who's
doing anything to help my businesses thrive.''

Rural post offices have struggled for years with
\href{https://www.thenation.com/article/archive/in-rural-america-the-postal-service-is-already-collapsing/}{staffing
shortages and high turnover,} and rural carriers say their days can be
long and perilous if they get stuck in a blizzard on some remote county
road. Unlike their city counterparts, rural carriers said they do not
generally earn overtime, so when the mail is heavy or weather is bad,
they say they work extra for free.

This year, elected officials and postal workers said the Postal Service
suffered a double blow. First came the coronavirus, which sickened
workers and flooded the system with a tsunami of package orders. Then
came cost-cutting measures ordered by
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/general-louis-dejoy-postmaster.html}{Louis
DeJoy, the new postmaster general}.

Testifying before a Senate committee on Friday and facing calls for his
resignation, Mr. DeJoy said he would
\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fwww.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion\%2F2020\%2F08\%2F18\%2Fus\%2Fpolitics\%2Fpostal-service-suspends-changes.html}{delay
overtime cuts and other operational changes} until after the election.
He said that he was ``extremely highly confident'' that even mail-in
ballots sent close to Election Day would be delivered on time.

David Partenheimer, a Postal Service spokesman, said the agency had
``experienced some temporary service disruptions in a few locations''
because of the pandemic, but said ``things are slowly getting back to
normal.'' Union members, however, said that sorting facilities were
still overflowing and that the situation was chaotic.

A recent
\href{https://www.niskanencenter.org/niskanen-center-jmc-analytics-and-polling-survey-of-rural-voters-on-usps-covid19/}{survey}
of voters in three rural, Republican districts in the 2020 battleground
of Pennsylvania found that in this polarized election season, some
voters' views of the post office were splitting along party lines.

The survey by the Niskanen Center, a moderate think tank, found that
Republicans were far less concerned than Democrats about the current
turmoil, and said they were also less likely to vote by mail. Twice as
many Democrats said they were ``very dependent'' on the post office.

But the same survey found some risk in attacking what has been among the
best-loved government agencies. Rural Democrats and Republicans in the
survey were leery of privatizing the Postal Service, an aim of Mr.
Trump's conservative allies, or cutting its budget. Mr. Trump
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/13/us/politics/trump-postal-service-mail-voting.html}{opposes}
a Democratic effort to provide the post office with \$25 billion in
emergency aid.

Amid the uproar, some rural residents worried that the damage to their
livelihoods and the credibility of the Postal Service had already been
done. They wondered whether they could still trust the mail to handle
their packages, animals and ballots.

``I've always counted on the post office,'' said Carrie Sparrevohn, 64,
who raises merino sheep and sells wool and yarn from her ranch outside
Auburn, Calif. ``Now, I don't know if I should be mailing anything.''

Image

A Postal Service truck in Thomaston. Some rural residents are wondering
whether they could still trust the mail to handle their packages,
animals and ballots.Credit...Tristan Spinski for The New York Times

Lately, her bills have been slow to come. She said the mail collection
box outside her rural post office was among many across the country that
were recently locked or removed, until an angry backlash forced the
Postal Service to stop. Ms. Sparrevohn said that she planned on voting
absentee, but that she would drop off her ballot instead of trust it to
the mail.

``I don't know if it's going to arrive,'' she said.

In Fort Benton, Mont., Leone Cloepfil, 75, started worrying about her
mail in July, when her Visa payment was not delivered and she was
charged a \$35.04 late fee. She had to stop driving recently after the
numbness in her foot got so bad that she could no longer feel the
pedals, so she said she had no choice but to trust her ballot to the
mail.

``I can't say I'm 100 percent sure,'' she said. ``It's a mess.''

Senator Jon Tester, a Democrat in rural Montana, has received 4,800
calls about the Postal Service since the pandemic began. One of the
complaints was from a neighbor in the 600-person town of Big Sandy who
ran out of medication while waiting for a refill to come in the mail.
(Mr. Tester's Republican counterpart in Montana, Senator Steve Daines,
also objected to the postmaster's new policies but did not respond to an
interview request.)

``It's worse than it's ever been,'' Mr. Tester said. ``It's hurting
rural America. It makes no sense whatsoever.''

Rural residents know that sparsely populated backcountry routes and tiny
post offices are not moneymakers for an agency losing tens of billions
of dollars because of congressionally mandated health care payments and
declines in mail volume.

But in places already isolated because of spotty internet access, people
said the post office was the only institution mandated to serve them at
a flat cost, no matter the weather or how remote they were. Like a
hospital, school or grocery store --- all of which have closed across
rural America --- they said a post office anchored a town's survival.

``If these small rural towns lose their post offices they lose their
identity,'' said Gaylene Christensen, who relies on the post office to
ship orders of home décor from her shop in Arlington, S.D., now that
foot traffic has been slowed by the pandemic. ``We're the ones who are
going to get hit.''

Lucy Tompkins contributed reporting.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
