Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday
Review}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/opinion/sunday}{Sunday Review}\textbar{}Trump the
Troglodyte

\href{https://nyti.ms/2YlTDg1}{https://nyti.ms/2YlTDg1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/section/opinion}{Opinion}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{trump-the-troglodyte}{%
\section{Trump the Troglodyte}\label{trump-the-troglodyte}}

The Supremes smack down a prehistoric president.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frank-bruni}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/04/03/opinion/frank-bruni/frank-bruni-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/frank-bruni}{Frank Bruni}

Opinion Columnist

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 20, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/06/21/opinion/sunday/21bruni/21bruni-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\hypertarget{listen-to-this-op-ed}{%
\subsubsection{Listen to This Op-Ed}\label{listen-to-this-op-ed}}

Audio Recording by Audm

\emph{To hear more audio stories from publishers like The New York
Times,
download}\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nytmag\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=left_behind_draper}{**}\href{https://www.audm.com/?utm_source=nyto\&utm_medium=embed\&utm_campaign=trump_the_troglodyte}{\emph{Audm
for iPhone or Android}}\emph{.}

There are leaders who are ahead of their times, leaders who are behind
their times, and then there's Donald Trump, who comes from another time
altogether. He's stuck somewhere closer to the Stone Age than to
Stonewall. And the Supreme Court just told him so.

In a 6-to-3 decision, the justices ruled on Monday that gay and
transgender people are protected by a landmark federal civil rights law.
It was a stunning milestone in L.G.B.T.Q. progress. It was also a major
slap at Trump, whose administration has gone perversely far out of its
way not merely to halt advances during the Obama years but to turn back
the clock.

The court, even with two Trump appointees, moves with the illuminated
society around it. Trump just grovels before his blinkered base. And
while Trump is often clueless about public opinion, the court seems to
be at least loosely tethered to it, as with a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/18/us/trump-daca-supreme-court.html}{5-to-4
ruling} on Thursday that nixed his intended scuttling of a program that
protected immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation. In some
polling,
\href{https://www.politico.com/f/?id=00000172-bfcc-d721-adff-bffc571e0000}{about
three-quarters of Americans} support that program.

``Do you get the impression that the Supreme Court doesn't like me?''
Trump tweeted just after the immigration decision was handed down. I
merely get the impression that a majority of the justices are sane.

It's one of the great riddles of Trump's presidency: how a man so
spectacularly out of touch and out of sync with so many Americans could
wind up ruling over us. And he falls further out of touch and more
clangorously out of sync by the second.

While the rest of the country
\href{https://www.usatoday.com/story/entertainment/movies/2020/06/14/gone-wind-hbo-max-introduction-jacqueline-stewart/3188959001/}{graduates
from ``Gone With the Wind''} to ``12 Years a Slave,'' Trump clings to
Tara tighter than Scarlett ever did. While the National Football League
finally
\href{https://www.npr.org/sections/live-updates-protests-for-racial-justice/2020/06/05/871290906/nfl-on-kneeling-players-protests-we-were-wrong-commissioner-says}{blesses
many players' desire to kneel} during the national anthem,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/17/sports/football/trump-kaepernick-kneeling-anthem.html}{Trump
still curses it}.

While Juneteenth lodges ever deeper in the national consciousness ---
and has been mentioned, annually, in official White House statements ---
Trump has to have a black Secret Service agent explain it to him, as
Michael Bender of
\href{https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-talks-juneteenth-john-bolton-economy-in-wsj-interview-11592493771}{The
Wall Street Journal reported} on Thursday.

``Sleepy'' Joe Biden? Trump, in the midst of
\href{https://www.vox.com/2019/3/22/18259865/great-awokening-white-liberals-race-polling-trump-2020}{a
great ``awokening,''} is Rip Van Winkle. And should he ever be roused
from his culturally oblivious snooze, he'll want meatloaf for lunch and
a well-done steak for dinner. He's an impossibly beefy man in an
Impossible Burger world.

No president's agenda and sensibility are in perfect tune with the
country's mood and the cultural zeitgeist, but Trump's discordance is
earsplitting.

As Americans came to depend on Obamacare, Trump came to kill it. As
Americans grew receptive to restrictions on firearms, Trump grew
submissive to the N.R.A. As Americans focused on climate change, Trump
ramped up offshore drilling. He thinks that taking the contrary position
makes him courageous, when really it just makes him obtuse. He's an
imagination-starved anachronism in visionary drag.

In fact I have a new theory for why he chose the running mate he did.
Mike Pence,
\href{https://www.politifact.com/article/2018/mar/27/does-mike-pence-call-his-wife-mother/}{who
calls his wife, Karen, ``Mother,''} was one of the few men in America
who made Trump look positively postmodern.

And that damned wall of Trump's, the wretched hallucination at the
center of his political identity? Poll after poll show that
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/documents/monmouthpoll_us_042519.pdf/}{most
Americans don't want it} --- not if Mexico pays for it, not if Martians
pay for it, not if Trump, Pence and Javanka put on coveralls and build
the monstrosity themselves. (Actually --- correction --- I suspect that
most Americans \emph{would} back that last scenario, and by a lopsided
margin if Stephen Miller and Betsy DeVos joined the work crew.)

You would think that a man so unreflective of his country could never
command the affections and approval of a majority of its people. And
\href{https://news.gallup.com/poll/203207/trump-job-approval-weekly.aspx}{you'd
be right}. Trump is the product and
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/what-unites-trumps-apologists-minority-rule/2019/11/24/152c5d06-0d6c-11ea-97ac-a7ccc8dd1ebc_story.html}{emblem
of minority rule}, the ridiculously lucky beneficiary of ridiculous
political circumstances.

Almost three million fewer Americans cast ballots for him than for
Hillary Clinton; he received 46 percent of the popular vote. But thanks
to the exigencies of the Electoral College, he won the presidency
nonetheless.

Most candidates --- and presidents --- start to sweat when their
approval rating dips below 50 percent. Trump does a jig when his gets
anywhere close to it.

The Republican Senate majority that saved his presidency by acquitting
him during his impeachment trial is, like him, a seriously warped mirror
of the country. Republicans control the chamber not because,
\href{https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2018/nov/08/democrats-republicans-senate-majority-minority-rule}{in
aggregate}, they get more votes in Senate elections. They control it
because its architecture privileges less populous states, many of which
lean Republican.

With the advent of the coronavirus pandemic, Trump's clash with his own
country intensified. He sporadically bristled at and raged about social
lockdowns and other such cautionary measures even as most Americans
supported them.

His view of recent anti-racism protests, his
\href{https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2020/06/trump-cant-even-pretend-to-want-to-fix-police-brutality}{language
about police brutality} and some of his stubborn positions in regard to
racial justice go against increasingly powerful currents in America,
where a
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/06/10/upshot/black-lives-matter-attitudes.html}{majority
of people now embrace} the Black Lives Matter movement. His
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/06/10/trump-says-he-wont-consider-renaming-army-bases-breaking-with-pentagon-311271}{refusal
to rename military bases} that pay tribute to men who fought for the
Confederacy goes against even military leaders.

And on gay rights? He's a study in regression. He went from shouting out
L.G.B.T.Q. Americans at the Republican National Convention in 2016 (a
slightly misunderstood speech, as
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2018/10/24/opinion/donald-trumps-gay-amnesia.html}{I
previously explained}) to smacking us down ever since.

His administration has packed federal courts with judges hostile to gay
rights. It has
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/feature/nbc-out/trump-s-controversial-transgender-military-policy-goes-effect-n993826}{barred
transgender Americans} from enlisting in military service. It has backed
Americans who, citing religious beliefs, don't want to
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/05/02/upshot/conscience-rule-trump-religious-exemption-health-care.html}{give
L.G.B.T.Q. Americans medical care} or
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/in-major-supreme-court-case-justice-dept-sides-with-baker-who-refused-to-make-wedding-cake-for-gay-couple/2017/09/07/fb84f116-93f0-11e7-89fa-bb822a46da5b_story.html?utm_term=.b9009191c100}{bake
us a cake}. Last June, when several United States embassies requested
permission to fly the rainbow flag in honor of Gay Pride,
\href{https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/trump-admin-tells-u-s-embassies-they-can-t-fly-n1015236}{the
State Department said no}.

In the days just before the Supreme Court's historic ruling on Monday,
the Trump administration
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/06/12/us/politics/trump-transgender-rights.html}{reversed
an Obama-administration rule} prohibiting discrimination against
transgender people in health care. And it is the administration's
position --- reiterated before the Supreme Court --- that federal civil
rights laws don't and shouldn't prevent a gay or lesbian employee from
being fired on the basis of sexual orientation. The court begged to
differ.

But then so do Americans --- by a \emph{really} big margin. According to
\href{https://www.cbsnews.com/news/supreme-court-opinion-poll-cbs-news/}{a
recent CBS poll}, 82 percent of them didn't think it should be legal to
fire someone for being gay. That included 71 percent of
\emph{Republicans} who held that position.

One lesson of all of the discrepancies between public opinion and
Trump's opinion is that if a president persuades Americans that he (or,
someday soon, she) is successfully managing the economy, there's a lot
of wiggle room to be both tyrant and troglodyte. Another, as I mentioned
earlier, is that the system is at least sort of broken.

A third is that Trump traveled toward his presidential destiny not via
that oft-cited escalator in Trump Tower but via a time machine. I hope
he kept the batteries charged, so it's ready, after November, to return
him to the past.

\emph{I invite you to sign up for my free}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/frank-bruni}{\emph{weekly
email newsletter}}\emph{. You can follow me on Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/FrankBruni}{\emph{@FrankBruni}}\emph{).}

\emph{Listen to}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/column/the-argument}{\emph{``The
Argument'' podcast}} \emph{every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat,
Michelle Goldberg and me.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
