Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}In Rebel-Held
Aleppo, Residents Report Increasing Desperation

\url{https://nyti.ms/2hhNuJc}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{in-rebel-held-aleppo-residents-report-increasing-desperation}{%
\section{In Rebel-Held Aleppo, Residents Report Increasing
Desperation}\label{in-rebel-held-aleppo-residents-report-increasing-desperation}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/08/world/08syria3/08syria3-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By \href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/anne-barnard}{Anne
Barnard}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Dec. 7, 2016
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

BEIRUT, Lebanon --- Syrian government forces pushed deeper into Aleppo
on Wednesday, seizing areas around the medieval citadel whose narrow
streets had long given rebels cover, pro-government websites and
conflict monitors reported.

Rebel leaders disputed the claims, but antigovernment activists in the
area sent increasingly desperate messages saying they believed they
would soon be killed or arrested, while civilians said they were
squeezing into a smaller and smaller area, with some calling for safe
passage out.

A rebel fighter with the Nour al-Din al-Zenki group, reached in a hiding
place near the Old City, said that several neighborhoods had fallen and
that defeat appeared inevitable. ``Aleppo has fallen,'' he said. ``If
there are no U.N. initiatives, I expect the regime will exterminate us
all.''

Several civilians confirmed that the government was continuing its
advance into the Old City. Al Manar, Hezbollah's television channel,
quoting Syrian military officials, reported that pro-government forces
had allowed rebels to leave through a designated corridor to other
rebel-held areas to spare the historical quarter further destruction.

Rebels were asking for all civilians who wished to leave to be given
safe passage to rebel-held areas, but not to the province of Idlib,
where fighters and civilians not wishing to go to
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/05/world/middleeast/aleppo-syria.html}{government
areas} have been bused in previous surrender deals. Instead, rebels
asked for safe passage to the countryside in the north of the province
of Aleppo.

A statement said to be from all the rebel groups in Aleppo, issued on
Wednesday, said that Idlib was already filled with displaced people and
was a target of
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/12/05/world/middleeast/russia-lavrov-kerry-aleppo-rebels.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FSyria\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=3\&pgtype=collection}{intensive
Russian and government airstrikes}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2016/12/08/world/08syria4/08syria4-articleInline.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

The statement also called for a five-day humanitarian cease-fire and for
the evacuation of about 500 people in need of emergency medical care,
under
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/10/22/world/middleeast/syria-aleppo-un.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FSyria\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=53\&pgtype=collection}{United
Nations} supervision with security guarantees. Only then, it said, would
the fighters discuss a settlement.

``Once the humanitarian situation has been alleviated in Aleppo city,
the parties concerned can negotiate the future of the city,'' the
statement said. ``What Aleppo has experienced in the last five months is
nothing short of a war of extermination against its civilian
population.''

But the rebels' bargaining power is shrinking with their territory, and
as one of their main backers, Turkey, appears to be slackening support.
Government officials say they will not slow their advance, asserting
that they are liberating eastern Aleppo from radical jihadists holding
people there hostage.

Government officials issued triumphant statements.
\href{https://twitter.com/ShehabiFares/status/806446029348503552}{Fares
Shehabi}, a member of Parliament from Aleppo, declared on Twitter, ``The
Syrian army is about to end the largest \& the longest hostage crisis in
history by liberating all of E Aleppo.''

Russian officials have said that all those who choose to remain in the
rebel-held areas of the city will be considered terrorists and will be
``destroyed,'' as the foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov,
\href{http://www.cbsnews.com/news/aleppo-fighting-continues-syrian-government-russia-warn-rebels-to-leave-city/}{said
Tuesday}. But no agreement has been reached on how the evacuation would
work.

\href{https://www.gov.uk/government/news/joint-statement-on-aleppo-7-december-2016}{In
a joint statement}, the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy,
Britain and the United States warned that ``a humanitarian disaster is
taking place before our very eyes.'' The statement condemned the Syrian
government and its allies,
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/world/europe/100000004769407/russia-begins-new-offensive-in-aleppo.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FSyria\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=20\&pgtype=collection}{especially
Russia}.

The statement cited an urgent need for an immediate cease-fire to
provide assistance to 200,000 people in eastern Aleppo and relief to
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/video/world/middleeast/100000004799319/a-risky-flight-from-eastern-aleppo.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FSyria\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=6\&pgtype=collection}{those
who have fled}, and it called on Russia and Iran to pressure the Syrian
government to endorse the United Nations' plan for Aleppo.

Image

Pro-government forces on Wednesday inside a post used by rebel fighters
in Aleppo.Credit...George Ourfalian/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said that the recent
effort by the leaders of six Western nations to seek yet another
diplomatic solution to the Syrian civil war was in part meant to ``apply
pressure to Russia'' because Russia is complicit in the deaths of
innocent civilians there.

``The president doesn't believe it's an effective strategy to gloss over
or somehow obscure Russia's complicity,'' Mr. Earnest said. ``We
actually believe that Russia bears special responsibility'' because of
its intervention on behalf of the government of President Bashar
al-Assad.

The government has accused rebels of preventing civilians from leaving
and of holding them as bargaining chips. Rebels say that the routes are
not safe and that some civilians are reluctant to leave for fear of
arrest or conscription once they reach government territory.

Approximately 30,000 have
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/29/world/middleeast/thousands-flee-onslaught-in-aleppo-as-assads-forces-gain-ground.html?rref=collection\%2Ftimestopic\%2FSyria\&action=click\&contentCollection=world\&region=stream\&module=stream_unit\&version=latest\&contentPlacement=9\&pgtype=collection}{fled}
to government-held areas of Aleppo from rebel-held districts in the past
week, according to international humanitarian officials. Others --- it
is not known how many --- have been displaced from their homes inside
the rebel enclave, and still others have fled to a neighborhood
controlled by Kurdish militias, hoping to reach other rebel-held areas.

\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2016/11/21/world/middleeast/aleppo-syria-bombs-hospital.html}{Years
of aerial bombing and artillery bombardment} have wrecked many eastern
Aleppo neighborhoods, destroying clinics, schools and homes. Rebels have
also indiscriminately shelled government-held neighborhoods in western
Aleppo.

Yasser Hmeish, an antigovernment activist, said he had left his family
to travel to a hospital in a different area, only to hear later that the
neighborhood where he lived had been taken by the government.

``I don't know anything, anything about them,'' he said in an audio
message, his voice breaking, adding that the internet service seemed to
have failed.

Image

Residents fleeing the violence in eastern Aleppo on
Wednesday.Credit...George Ourfalian/Agence France-Presse --- Getty
Images

He said that he was speaking from a makeshift medical clinic and that
doctors were working in secret basement locations after being driven
from hospitals. There were dozens of wounded and dead around him,
including children, he added.

``My neighbors have died; they were brought here,'' he said. ``I
couldn't ask them, `Where is my family?' ''

The latest round of fighting has killed at least 341 people, including
44 children, in rebel-held Aleppo, and 81 people, including 31 children,
in government-held districts, according to
\href{http://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2013/04/10/world/middleeast/the-man-behind-the-casualty-figures-in-syria.html}{the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights}, a monitoring organization based in
Britain.

About half of the people fleeing east Aleppo are children, said Hanaa
Singer, Unicef's Syria representative, describing hard conditions in
camps for the displaced in cold and muddy weather. During her recent
visit, she said, more than 100 mortar rounds had fallen on
government-held areas of Aleppo in a few days --- killing a volunteer,
Ahmed Tawfik, 24, an economics student, who had been working with
displaced children --- while heavy bombardment echoed constantly nearby
in eastern Aleppo.

Children at the camp, she said, ``shared stories of how they cowered for
days and weeks in dark and damp basements in fear of the shelling in
besieged east Aleppo.''

She added: ``They shared their dark memories of destruction, and the
smell of dead bodies under the rubble. They said they were happy to be
outside, to enjoy the sun and feel the air. To be able to sing and to
play. But they missed friends, fathers and elder brothers. They missed
their schools. They missed their books, games, and one girl was missing
her teddy bear.''

The growing chaos in Aleppo came as an attack suspected to have been
carried out by Israel hit the Mezze air base, minutes from downtown
Damascus, the Syrian capital, according to the Lebanese news channel Al
Mayadeen, which showed pictures of the complex burning. The base has
been critical to the government's fight against rebels in nearby
suburbs. It also houses a prison.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
