Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}After Heart Attack, Bernie
Sanders Takes Long Walks and Eats Salads

\url{https://nyti.ms/2qc0UR1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/07/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{after-heart-attack-bernie-sanders-takes-long-walks-and-eats-salads}{%
\section{After Heart Attack, Bernie Sanders Takes Long Walks and Eats
Salads}\label{after-heart-attack-bernie-sanders-takes-long-walks-and-eats-salads}}

Six weeks after his heart attack, Mr. Sanders is adopting a more
wholesome regimen, conscious that he must persuade voters he is fit
enough to be president.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/09/us/politics/09sanders-health/09sanders-health-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2018/06/12/multimedia/author-sydney-ember/author-sydney-ember-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/sydney-ember}{Sydney
Ember}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Nov. 13, 2019Updated Feb. 19, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

{[}\emph{Read more:}
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/08/us/politics/bernie-sanders-drops-out.html}{\emph{Bernie
Sanders drops out of 2020 democratic presidential race}}.{]}

DES MOINES --- Before a campaign event last month,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/12/06/podcasts/the-daily/bernie-sanders.html}{Bernie
Sanders} and his wife, Jane, went for an hourlong stroll around Green
Castle Recreation Area, a lush park in central Iowa with evergreen trees
and a small lake. Mr. Sanders also walked around a residential
neighborhood in Waterloo recently, prompting curious passers-by to ask
him what on earth he was doing there.

Ms. Sanders is ensuring that her husband is getting adequate rest, and
he has been requesting fish for dinner instead of steak or ribs.

``I've noticed him ordering a heck of a lot more salads,'' said Faiz
Shakir, Mr. Sanders's campaign manager.

Some allies, aware that Mr. Sanders can appear rumpled, have even urged
him to dress better --- he has been wearing more stylish sweaters ---
and to rein in his previously unkempt hair.

In the six weeks since he suffered a heart attack while campaigning in
Las Vegas, Mr. Sanders has been working hard to move past his health
issues, adhering to a newly wholesome regimen that has included more
exercise and a healthier diet.

His recuperative program has coincided with a vigorous push to reboot
his campaign: Buoyed by an enormous rally in New York City and the
endorsements of three prominent young liberal congresswomen, including
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, his campaign has
enjoyed fresh momentum heading into the final stretch before the primary
contests begin.

Yet Mr. Sanders, 78, is still trying to rekindle the magic of his last
presidential bid, as he struggles to expand his base in the crucial
early states of Iowa and New Hampshire, both places that helped propel
him against Hillary Clinton in 2016. He and his team recognize that his
ability to beat his chief ideological rival, Elizabeth Warren, and the
rest of the leading candidates depends in part on whether he can
convince voters that his age, and his health, is not an issue.

``If people were on the fence at any point, they probably went to Warren
after Sanders's health scare,'' said Bryce Smith, the Democratic
chairman in Dallas County, Iowa.

In Iowa and nationally, Mr. Sanders remains in the top-tier of
Democratic candidates, though at different levels.
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/01/us/politics/iowa-poll-warren-biden.html?module=inline}{A
poll of likely Democratic caucusgoers} released Nov. 1 by The New York
Times and Siena College showed Mr. Sanders in second place in Iowa, only
slightly behind Ms. Warren. A Monmouth poll released Tuesday
\href{https://www.monmouth.edu/polling-institute/reports/monmouthpoll_IA_111219/}{showed
him in fourth place in the state}.

The Times/Siena poll also showed him running third nationally, behind
Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Ms. Warren, and leading with some voter groups,
like Hispanics and those between ages 18 and 29.

Many of his supporters dismiss the notion that his age is a
vulnerability, brushing off the fact that he would be the oldest
president ever elected. Younger fans, one of his biggest bases of
support, often say with affection that he reminds them of their
grandfather or uncle.

His main opponents are, for the most part, also not young. Mr. Biden,
who has faced questions about his own age, is 76. Ms. Warren is 70.
President Trump is 73. (On the other hand, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South
Bend, Ind., who is surging in Iowa, is 37.)

When he is asked about his heart attack, Mr. Sanders says he is
``feeling great.'' At rallies and town hall-style gatherings over the
last several weeks, he has appeared livelier and more genial, and has
even cracked the occasional one-liner to make light of his condition;
during
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/11/10/us/politics/bernie-sanders-aoc-iowa.html}{a
rally with Ms. Ocasio-Cortez in Council Bluffs, Iowa, last week}, he
joked that some people thought the two of them made an ``odd couple''
because ``she is so old and I am so young.'' Despite suggesting that he
would slow the pace of his campaign while recovering, he often holds
multiple events a day.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/11/09/us/politics/09sanders-health-02/merlin_162979506_0425ff0e-57ee-4aee-8615-a0d0a04d1a7e-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

But he and his advisers are also mindful that he is under more scrutiny
than ever before, and he has acknowledged that voters would likely
consider his health when deciding whether to support him. His campaign
has said he would release his health records by the end of the year but
he has yet to do so, and it remains unclear how much damage his heart
attack caused.

Democratic voters have expressed some reservations about Mr. Sanders's
condition following his heart attack. A recent poll conducted by
\href{https://www.washingtonpost.com/context/context-card/eea087b6-ca22-4cd9-a254-6bdd49d000a4/}{The
Washington Post and ABC News} found that only 48 percent of respondents
said Mr. Sanders was in good enough health to serve as president,
compared with 74 percent for Mr. Biden and 80 percent for Ms. Warren.

``I do think his age is playing into peoples' decision, as well as
perceived electability,'' said Rachel Bly, the Democratic chairwoman in
Poweshiek County, Iowa. Ms. Warren, she added, was ``seen as more
electable.''

With that in mind, Mr. Sanders has displayed newfound determination to
prove his resilience, an objective that has meant balancing his
rehabilitation with concrete steps to show he has the energy, and
endurance, to go the distance.

Previously known to enjoy diner food and meals at Outback Steakhouse
while on the campaign trail, Mr. Sanders --- with prodding from Ms.
Sanders, who often travels with him --- is eating more nutritiously,
often asking at restaurants if they have grilled fish. He recently ate a
vegan breakfast. His most common order at Panera, a lunchtime go-to on
the road, is soup and a salad.

``We're getting better eating habits and making sure we can maintain
them on the road,'' Ms. Sanders said in an interview last month. ``For
him and for me, and for everybody else on the campaign.''

He has also incorporated more physical activity into his routine,
frequently asking staffers to schedule time for a walk between campaign
stops. The fashion-minded have noticed the upgrade to his wardrobe:
Esquire magazine recently
\href{https://www.esquire.com/uk/style/a29532336/trump-tycoon-bernie-cozy-boy-librarian-democrats-2020/}{praised
his look}, writing that his knitwear in particular was ``smart enough
for a formal dress code, but softens the angles of a tailored suit.''

And while he has long been reluctant to speak about his age, he has
begun to embrace it, arguing that it gives him the upper hand.

``I've been criticized for being old,'' he said at a campaign stop in
Marshalltown, Iowa, three weeks ago, his first since his heart attack.
``I plead guilty. I am old. But there are some advantages of being
old.''

Among Democrats, Mr. Sanders's health has become a popular topic.

``You're electing a leader, and you want that person to be around for
another four years or eight years to do the job that you're electing him
to do,'' said Martha Wilding, 55, a school librarian from Cedar Rapids,
Iowa.

Karen Carver, 74, Ms. Wilding's friend, said she worried health concerns
could distract a president from focusing on the job, noting that voters
had plenty of other options. Mr. Sanders's health, she said, ``might not
be so much of an issue if there weren't so many other people who are
qualified.''

Image

Mr. Sanders at a Labor Day parade in Milford, N.H., a month before his
heart attack.Credit...Sarah Rice for The New York Times

Running for president is not the regimen typically prescribed by doctors
after their patients suffer heart attacks.

``Ideally, we like to say, `avoid stress,''' said Dr. Eric Peterson, a
professor of cardiology at Duke University. ``But that's not going to be
possible this election.''

Beyond that, he said patients are typically told to take at least two
weeks off after a heart attack; they are then instructed to take
preventive medication and to follow a formal program for cardiac rehab
that includes monitoring and lifestyle modifications.

Mr. Sanders's aides and advisers have admitted privately that they were
uncertain about the future of his candidacy immediately after his heart
attack. But they now insist he has not lost a step, and point out that
he is doing well in polls and drawing large crowds. His campaign moved
the location of a rally earlier this month with Representative Ilhan
Omar of Minnesota, who has also endorsed him, to accommodate a
larger-than-expected audience.

``You're seeing a very comfortable Bernie Sanders,'' Mr. Shakir, the
campaign manager, said. ``He's having fun campaigning. There's something
about having gone through the heart incident he did that I think has
made him, even more so, appreciate the joys of campaigning, and it's
also centered him more firmly on why he's running.''

One other benefit of Mr. Sanders's health scare: the voters who can
relate.

When told Ms. Sanders would like her husband to eat more vegetables, Ken
Ramstad, 64, of Cedar Rapids, said he knew the feeling.

``My wife,'' he said, ``does too.''

Lisa Lerer contributed reporting from Cedar Rapids and Reid Epstein from
Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 7, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    The unofficial Labor Day kickoff to the fall presidential campaign
    centered on Pennsylvania and Wisconsin,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/07/us/politics/wisconsin-biden-harris-trump-pence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{two
    pivotal states for both President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
