Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

Letter of Recommendation: Nike Air Force 1s

\url{https://nyti.ms/2X4yFyp}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\href{/column/letter-of-recommendation}{Letter of Recommendation}

\hypertarget{letter-of-recommendation-nike-air-force-1s}{%
\section{Letter of Recommendation: Nike Air Force
1s}\label{letter-of-recommendation-nike-air-force-1s}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2019/06/30/magazine/30mag-lor/29cfc925fec748baa44dd2fdef9cef42-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By D. Watkins

\begin{itemize}
\item
  June 25, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``Wake up, dummy!'' my cousin yelled through my bedroom door. This was
back in 1998, about 7 a.m. ``You got the Foot Locker interview! We need
that discount! Get up!''

Ashy, teenage me fell out of bed and ran to my calendar, navigating
through all the sneakers littering my floor: Air Jordans, Air Max 90s,
95s, 97s, the Pippens that say ``AIR'' on the side, more Uptempos,
Duncans, Air Pennys and every other slightly worn Nike in my rotation.
He was right, today was the Foot Locker interview --- the day that the
famous sneaker chain would recognize me as a shoe expert, hire me on the
spot, hit me with my own official Foot Locker referee shirt and grossly
underpay me but try to make it right with the 30 percent discount before
marveling at the way I tripled their sales with my uncanny shoe
intellect and promote me to the highest level in their company while I
was still in high school.

I had never had a job before. In the event that I ever was in a position
to get one, my dad always told me to say, ``I'd like to develop a sense
of independence.'' We all know that the real reason we work is for
money, but as Pop constantly reminded me, ``You gotta play the game.'' I
planned to play the game that day in a crisp button-up shirt, some black
slacks, and hard bottoms --- you know, church shoes. But after 10
minutes of shoe digging and finding only one, I spotted, all the way at
the end of the long line of boxed shoes I rarely touched, a fresh pair
of white-on-white ``Airs.'' I threw them on and blasted out the door.

Nike Air Force 1s were sacred in my town, and still are. We Baltimoreans
call them ``Airs'' because they're as important to us as oxygen. My dad
ran the streets in his until the fronts crinkled and the seams burst. My
older brother and his friends would buy fresh pairs by the dozens with
street money, in a bunch of different colors to match their Russell,
Champion and Sergio Tacchini tracksuits. Clean Airs and a clean
sweatsuit was the East Baltimore uniform.

When I arrived at the interview, there was one nervous-looking guy in
front of me. From behind, I heard a voice: ``You cleaned up for this
job, with ya lil' Airs and button-up on. You think you cute?''

``Nay Nay!'' I said, turning around. ``You never beeped me. What's up?''

``I thought you wanted to be a little drug dealer like your friends?''
she said.

Nay Nay was two years ahead of me in school. She always had a reason for
not dating me: ``You too young!'' or ``Those boys you be with are too
crazy!'' But here I was, interviewing for jobs. I wrote my beeper number
down for her again and watched her walk out of the store.

``Mr. Watkins, how you doin', B!'' the store manager said in a heavy New
York accent. ``Welcome!'' I followed him into a little office at the
back of the store, where he complimented my shoes: ``I'm gonna get
married in a pair of Air 1s, B.'' He offered a common myth about how the
world should be thankful that New York popularized the sneaker (New
Yorkers are very Christopher Columbus-like --- they think they
discovered everything). The truth was, the shoe needed Baltimore as much
as Baltimore needed the shoe. ``Without Baltimore, the Nike Air Force 1
might have faded out of existence,'' reads a Nike promo from 2017. ``In
1984, two years after its launch, Nike wasn't planning to continue
production of the shoe. But thanks to Baltimore's enthusiastic wearers,
the AF-1 continued to be made.''

Harold Rudo, whose family founded the legendary Baltimore sneaker store
Charley Rudo Sports, was getting them delivered by the truckload when he
heard that Nike planned to discontinue the shoe. This was in the days
before the internet, so businesses like Rudo's weren't as focused on
what the rest of the world was doing. The local market was everything
--- and locally, we wanted Airs. ``The shoes were blowing out of my
store,'' Rudo said in
a\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/news/bs-xpm-2007-01-25-0701250054-story.html}{2007
article} in The Baltimore Sun. He flew out to Nike's headquarters in
Portland, Oregon, and ``met with the second-in-command.'' Airs were one
of the most popular shoes in both Rudo's East and West Baltimore stores.
``After a time, Nike decided to send AF1s to the chopping block,''
Rochelle Rudo, Harold's sister,
\href{https://www.baltimoresun.com/obituaries/bs-md-ob-harold-rudo-20170404-story.html}{told
the Sun}. ``Harold wouldn't let that happen.''

The Foot Locker manager shook my hand. ``You'll be hearing from me,
kid,'' he said. ``Real talk.'' I headed home to let my cousin know that
I smashed the interview, and that we had big discounts in our future. On
the way, I got a \#911 page, so I stopped at a pay phone and hit the
number back: It was Nay Nay, asking for a date.

When I picked up my cousin, he cut me off before I could tell him about
my winning streak. ``No time!'' he replied, jumping in my car: Two
friends wanted to play us in basketball for money, like \$300, right
now.

I looked down at my feet. My fresh white Airs were about to get as
crumpled and brown at the seams as my dad's. We won the game, and I
wiped them down as best I could before my date with Nay Nay, which led
to multiple dates, which led to nothing, because she was using high
school me to make her 20-something-year-old boyfriend jealous. I never
got that Foot Locker job, or any other job in a shoe store, either. But
I discovered my connection with Airs, just as my dad, big brother and
older guys in the neighborhood did before me. I'm from a place where
nothing is permanent --- not housing, not family, not freedom --- and
yet these shoes have always been there: the one sneaker I can hoop in,
wear on a date or to a job interview. Twenty years later, and they're
still a part of my uniform.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
