Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Fact-Checking the
Biden-Sanders Democratic Debate

\url{https://nyti.ms/3dbQEw2}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/08/us/elections/results-new-hampshire-primary-elections.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{New
  Hampshire Results}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/08/us/trump-vs-biden?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Paths
  to 270}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Voting
  by Mail}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2019/us/elections/2020-presidential-election-calendar.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Key
  Dates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{fact-checking-the-biden-sanders-democratic-debate}{%
\section{Fact-Checking the Biden-Sanders Democratic
Debate}\label{fact-checking-the-biden-sanders-democratic-debate}}

Our reporters are following all of the exchanges and fact-checking the
two candidates, providing context and explanation.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/03/15/us/politics/15dc-factcheck-pix-sub/15dc-factcheck-pix-sub-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By The New York Times

\begin{itemize}
\item
  March 15, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

The two major candidates continuing to vie for the 2020 Democratic
presidential nomination met Sunday night amid the coronavirus crisis at
the CNN studio in Washington, without an audience, for what may be the
final debate of the primary season.

Here is how the candidates' remarks stacked up against the truth.

What the Facts Are:

\hypertarget{senator-bernie-sanders-said-former-vice-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-had-supported-cuts-to-social-security}{%
\subsection{Senator Bernie Sanders said former Vice President Joseph R.
Biden Jr. had supported cuts to Social
Security.}\label{senator-bernie-sanders-said-former-vice-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-had-supported-cuts-to-social-security}}

What Mr. Sanders said:

\emph{``You were in the Senate for a few years. Time and time again,
talking about the necessity with pride about cutting Social Security,
cutting Medicare and veterans programs.''}

\textbf{True but lacks context.} Mr. Biden
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/01/26/us/politics/biden-factcheck.html}{at
multiple points in his Senate career} praised measures to reduce the
federal budget deficit, including some that would have reduced the
spending growth in Social Security. He has also vowed to protect the
program at other times, including in the Senate, in a 2012
vice-presidential debate and in his current campaign, where he has
proposed expanding the program.

In 1984, Mr. Biden supported a one-year freeze to cost-of-living
adjustments in federal spending that would have applied to Social
Security. In 1995 he voted for a federal balanced budget amendment that
did not explicitly shield the program from cuts. He said in 2007 that he
was open to raising the eligibility age for receiving benefits from the
program, and he and President Barack Obama tried to negotiate a
so-called grand bargain on federal spending that would have reduced the
growth of Social Security spending over time.

What the facts are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-criticized-president-trump-for-his-decision-to-develop-a-new-coronavirus-test-when-one-was-already-available}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden criticized President Trump for his decision to
develop a new coronavirus test when one was already
available.}\label{mr-biden-criticized-president-trump-for-his-decision-to-develop-a-new-coronavirus-test-when-one-was-already-available}}

What Mr. biden Said:

\emph{``No, the World Health Organization offered testing kits that they
have available to give to us now. We refused them. We did not want to
buy them. We did not want to get them from them. We wanted to make sure
we had our own.''}

\textbf{True.} The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did decide
to develop its own coronavirus test, despite the existence of one
already created by the World Health Organization. As The New York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/10/us/coronavirus-testing-delays.html}{reported},
the federal government ``designed its own test as it typically does
during an outbreak.'' That test, however, produced faulty results and
ultimately delayed local public health departments' ability to test a
large number of patients for the novel disease. Meanwhile, the World
Health Organization made its test widely available, and
\href{https://www.politico.com/news/2020/03/06/coronavirus-testing-failure-123166}{more
than 60 countries} decided to use that product.

WHAT THE facts are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-and-mr-sanders-argued-over-the-provisions-of-a-coronavirus-bill-that-just-passed-the-house}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden and Mr. Sanders argued over the provisions of a
coronavirus bill that just passed the
House.}\label{mr-biden-and-mr-sanders-argued-over-the-provisions-of-a-coronavirus-bill-that-just-passed-the-house}}

WHAT WAS SAID:

Mr. Biden: \emph{``We just passed a law saying you do not have to pay
for any of this, period.''}

Mr. Sanders: \emph{``That's not true. As a matter of fact, that's not
true. That law has enormous loopholes.''}

\textbf{Mr. Biden's statement was exaggerated.} The emergency relief
package passed by the House in a bipartisan vote on Saturday includes
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/14/us/politics/congress-coronavirus-bill.html}{several
measures intended to help families and workers} including paid sick
leave, unemployment benefits and food assistance. President Trump has
voiced his support, but it is slightly premature to call this
legislation ``law.''

The
\href{https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/Families\%20First\%20summary.pdf\#page=7}{bill}
requires private insurers and government-run programs like Medicare and
Medicaid to cover diagnostic testing for the coronavirus ``at no cost to
the consumer.'' It also gives states the option to extend Medicaid
coverage and free testing to their uninsured populations.

What the Facts Are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-claimed-he-could-immediately-pass-legislation-to-create-a-so-called-public-option-that-would-allow-all-americans-to-enroll-in-medicare}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden claimed he could immediately pass legislation to
create a so-called public option that would allow all Americans to
enroll in
Medicare.}\label{mr-biden-claimed-he-could-immediately-pass-legislation-to-create-a-so-called-public-option-that-would-allow-all-americans-to-enroll-in-medicare}}

What Mr. Biden said:

\emph{``A Medicare option. We can do that now. I can get that passed. I
can get that done, if I'm president of the United States of America.''}

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} Mr. Biden tried to argue that
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/07/15/us/politics/biden-health-care.html}{his
health care plan}, which would let Americans sign up for Medicare while
leaving private coverage intact, had a more realistic path toward
becoming legislation than
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2019/06/27/us/politics/bernie-sanders-medicare-for-all.html}{Mr.
Sanders's Medicare-for-all proposal}. In truth, both policies would face
long odds in Congress, where Republicans currently hold a majority in
the Senate and oppose both ideas. Even if Democrats were to control both
houses, the public option would still be far from easy to enact into
law: Many wanted to include it in the Affordable Care Act passed under
President Barack Obama, but it ultimately fell out of the legislation
after
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2009/06/11/us/politics/11health.html}{intense
lobbying} from the health insurance industry.

What the Facts Are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-was-wrong-on-the-number-of-super-pacs-supporting-mr-sanders}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden was wrong on the number of super PACs supporting
Mr.
Sanders.}\label{mr-biden-was-wrong-on-the-number-of-super-pacs-supporting-mr-sanders}}

What Mr. Biden said:

\emph{``You get rid of the nine super PACs?''}

\textbf{This is exaggerated.} Mr. Biden was most likely referring to
``\href{https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https\%3A\%2F\%2Fpeoplesaction.org\%2F2020\%2F01\%2Fnine-groups-that-endorsed-sanders-join-forces-to-drive-black-brown-working-class-and-young-voter-turnout-in-primaries\%2F}{People
Power for Bernie},'' a coalition of nine outside advocacy groups backing
Mr. Sanders's candidacy and organizing voter mobilization efforts on his
behalf. These groups were labeled ``dark money'' by Pete Buttigieg, the
former Democratic candidate. Most of them others are
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/02/18/us/politics/pete-buttigieg-fact-check.html}{501(c)(4)
organizations or social welfare nonprofits}.

Beyond these groups, Mr. Sanders does have the support of a super PAC of
National Nurses United, the country's largest nurses' union. It has
spent over \$750,000 in support of his candidacy,
\href{https://www.opensecrets.org/outsidespending/summ.php?chrt=V\&type=S}{according
to the campaign finance watchdog the Center for Responsive Politics}.
(The center also lists three other super PACs that support Mr. Sanders,
but they have spent no money on his behalf.) In contrast, the super PAC
supporting Mr. Biden (Unite the Country) was created by his former aides
and has spent about \$10 million on his behalf.

What the Facts Are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-said-both-he-and-mr-sanders-embrace-the-idea-of-a-green-new-deal-to-address-climate-change}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden said both he and Mr. Sanders embrace the idea of a
``green new deal'' to address climate
change.}\label{mr-biden-said-both-he-and-mr-sanders-embrace-the-idea-of-a-green-new-deal-to-address-climate-change}}

What Mr. Biden said:

\emph{``We both agree that we have a new green deal to deal with the
threat that faces humanity.''}

\textbf{This is mostly true.} The Green New Deal is a congressional
resolution that lays out an ambitious plan to fight both climate change
and economic inequality. It includes a goal of switching to 100 percent
wind, solar and other renewable energy by 2030 while providing a federal
jobs guarantee and Medicare for all. Mr. Sanders is an original
co-sponsor of the Senate version of that resolution, and incorporated
many of the elements of the bill into his climate plan, which he also
has named for the Green New Deal.

Mr. Biden has said in his climate plan that he believes the Green New
Deal ``is a crucial framework for meeting the climate challenges we
face.'' But his plan puts \$1.7 trillion into addressing climate change
compared with \$16 trillion proposed by Mr. Sanders, and sets a slightly
later deadline --- 2050 --- for decarbonizing the economy.

What the facts are:

\hypertarget{mr-sanders-inflated-the-degree-to-which-he-and-former-president-barack-obama-were-united-in-opposition-to-an-immigration-bill-in-2007}{%
\subsection{Mr. Sanders inflated the degree to which he and former
President Barack Obama were united in opposition to an immigration bill
in
2007.}\label{mr-sanders-inflated-the-degree-to-which-he-and-former-president-barack-obama-were-united-in-opposition-to-an-immigration-bill-in-2007}}

What Mr. Sanders said:

\emph{``That bill was opposed by LULAC, the largest Latino organization
in America. They called the guest worker program akin to slavery. The
bill was killed because it was a vote on the amendment. I think it was
49 to 48. You know who voted with me? Barack Obama.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Sanders was referring to immigration
reform legislation in 2007. The bill, which ultimately failed in the
Senate, would have given legal status to millions of undocumented
immigrants, established a temporary worker program, strengthened border
security and limited family-based immigration in favor of a skills- and
education-based system.

Mr. Sanders was right that the League of United Latin American Citizens
said the bill would exploit immigrant workers. And he and Mr. Obama,
then the junior senator from Illinois, both
\href{https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=110\&session=1\&vote=00201}{voted}
for an amendment that would have scaled back the guest worker program in
early June 2007.

But later, Mr. Obama voted to invoke cloture --- ending debate and
allowing the Senate to take a final vote on the whole bill --- three
times, while Mr. Sanders
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/110th-congress/senate-bill/1348/all-actions?overview=closed\&q=\%7B\%22roll-call-vote\%22:\%22all\%22\%7D\&KWICView=false}{voted
against it all three times}. Weeks later, the Senate revived the
legislation. Mr. Obama
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/110th-congress/senate-bill/1639/all-actions?overview=closed\&q=\%7B\%22roll-call-vote\%22:\%22all\%22\%7D\&KWICView=false}{again
voted to move the bill forward} while Mr. Sanders did not.

What the facts are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-accused-mr-sanders-of-voting-against-a-russia-sanctions-bill-mr-sanders-said-he-voted-against-the-bill-because-it-included-new-sanctions-on-iran-that-could-undercut-the-2015-nuclear-deal}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden accused Mr. Sanders of voting against a Russia
sanctions bill. Mr. Sanders said he voted against the bill because it
included new sanctions on Iran that could undercut the 2015 nuclear
deal.}\label{mr-biden-accused-mr-sanders-of-voting-against-a-russia-sanctions-bill-mr-sanders-said-he-voted-against-the-bill-because-it-included-new-sanctions-on-iran-that-could-undercut-the-2015-nuclear-deal}}

What Mr. Sanders said:

\emph{``It was undermining the Iranian agreement.''}

\textbf{True on both counts.} The argument centers on a vote that the
Senate took in June 2017 to impose sanctions on Russia for its
interference in the 2016 election. The bill also included sanctions on
Iran, at a time when the 2015 nuclear accord with Tehran was still fully
in effect. (Mr. Trump exited the agreement nearly a year later.)

The bill passed 98 to 2; only Mr. Sanders and Senator Rand Paul,
Republican of Kentucky, voted against it. In a statement after the vote,
Mr. Sanders said that ``I am strongly supportive of the sanctions on
Russia included in this bill,'' and that it was ``unacceptable'' that
Russia interfered with the U.S. elections ``or anywhere around the
world.'' But he said he was concerned that new sanctions on Iran ``could
endanger the very important nuclear agreement that was signed between
the United States, its partners and Iran in 2015.''

Mr. Biden was a modest player in the Obama administration negotiation of
that deal --- most of the heavy lifting was done by Secretary of State
John Kerry and a team of State and Energy Department negotiators. But he
supported it. In criticizing Mr. Sanders, he is essentially saying that
the need to punish Russia should have overridden the concerns about
undermining the Iran deal. Mr. Sanders came to the opposite conclusion.

What the Facts Are:

\hypertarget{mr-biden-wrongly-said-mr-sanders-voted-against-the-auto-bailout}{%
\subsection{Mr. Biden wrongly said Mr. Sanders voted against the auto
bailout.}\label{mr-biden-wrongly-said-mr-sanders-voted-against-the-auto-bailout}}

What Mr. Biden said:

\emph{``Also part of that was bailing out the automobile industry.
Saving thousands of jobs. Tens of thousands of jobs over time. He voted
against that as well.''}

\textbf{This is misleading.} Mr. Sanders actually supported the \$14
billion auto rescue plan in December 2008. ``The problem is if you don't
act in the midst of a growing recession, what does it mean to create a
situation where millions of more people become unemployed and that could
spread? And I have serious concerns about that. I think it would be a
terrible idea to add millions more to the unemployment rolls,'' Mr.
Sanders told
\href{https://archive.vpr.org/vpr-news/leahy-sanders-reluctantly-support-auto-industry-rescue/}{Vermont
Public Radio} at the time.

But the bill failed in the Senate, prompting the Bush administration to
propose using funding from the
\href{https://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/financial-stability/reports/Pages/TARP-Tracker.aspx}{Troubled
Asset Relief Program} --- which passed in October 2008 to bail out Wall
Street and which Mr. Sanders opposed --- to also aid automakers. Once
the bailouts were lumped together, Mr. Sanders
\href{https://www.senate.gov/legislative/LIS/roll_call_lists/roll_call_vote_cfm.cfm?congress=111\&session=1\&vote=00005}{opposed
the overall package}.

Fact checks by Sarah Kliff, Linda Qiu, Jim Tankersley, David E. Sanger
and Lisa Friedman.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated ~Sept. 8, 2020

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    President Trump and his party are using a playbook that aims to
    alarm people about crime in their backyards. It didn't work in 2018,
    but
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/08/us/politics/trump-republicans-fear-strategy.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{both
    parties think it could resonate more this year}.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{how-to-win-270}{%
  \subsection{How to Win 270}\label{how-to-win-270}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Joe Biden and Donald Trump need 270 electoral votes to reach the
    White House. Try building
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/election-states-biden-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{your
    own coalition of battleground states}~to see potential outcomes.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{voting-by-mail}{%
  \subsection{Voting by Mail}\label{voting-by-mail}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Will you have enough time to vote by mail in your state? Yes, but
    it's risky to procrastinate.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/31/us/politics/vote-by-mail-deadlines.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Check
    your state's deadline.}
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/joe-biden.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{joe-biden}{%
    \section{Joe Biden}\label{joe-biden}}

    \hypertarget{democrat}{%
    \subsection{Democrat}\label{democrat}}

    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/elections/donald-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{}

    \hypertarget{donald-trump}{%
    \section{Donald Trump}\label{donald-trump}}

    \hypertarget{republican}{%
    \subsection{Republican}\label{republican}}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}~recapping
    the day's news
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}~and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}~and
    turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
