Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate}{Climate}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/climate}{Climate}\textbar{}Andrew Wheeler, Who Continued
Environmental Rollbacks, Is Confirmed to Lead E.P.A.

\url{https://nyti.ms/2VoC6zf}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
and Environment}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Rising
  Seas}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/climate/trump-environment-rollbacks.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Trump's
  Changes}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/19/climate/climate-crash-course-1.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Climate
  101}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/08/30/climate/how-much-hotter-is-your-hometown.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Is
  Your Hometown Hotter?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{andrew-wheeler-who-continued-environmental-rollbacks-is-confirmed-to-lead-epa}{%
\section{Andrew Wheeler, Who Continued Environmental Rollbacks, Is
Confirmed to Lead
E.P.A.}\label{andrew-wheeler-who-continued-environmental-rollbacks-is-confirmed-to-lead-epa}}

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2019/03/01/climate/01CLI-WHEELER-print/01CLI-WHEELER-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2018/07/18/multimedia/author-lisa-friedman/author-lisa-friedman-thumbLarge.png}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/lisa-friedman}{Lisa Friedman}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Feb. 28, 2019
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- The Senate on Thursday confirmed Andrew R. Wheeler to be
the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, giving
oversight of the nation's air and water to a former coal lobbyist and
seasoned Washington insider.

The confirmation formalized a role Mr. Wheeler has held in an acting
capacity since the summer when President Trump's first administrator,
Scott Pruitt,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/climate/scott-pruitt-epa-trump.html}{resigned
amid multiple ethics inquiries}.

The vote, 52-47, went mostly along party lines and underscored partisan
divisions over the Trump administration's continued commitment to
repealing environmental regulations under Mr. Wheeler.

Senator Susan Collins of Maine was the only Republican to vote against
Mr. Wheeler.

``The policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the
best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given
the threat of climate change to our nation,'' Senator Collins said.

Nearly eight months after taking over the chief role from Mr. Pruitt,
who was known for his combative style, analysts said Mr. Wheeler had
brought a change in demeanor to the agency but virtually no difference
in policy direction from his predecessor.

\emph{Want climate news in your inbox?}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Sign up
here
for}}\textbf{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/climate-change}{\emph{Climate
Fwd:}}}\emph{, our email newsletter.}

Jonathan H. Adler, a professor at the Case Western Reserve University
School of Law, characterized Mr. Wheeler's soft-spoken style and
willingness to listen to criticism as genuine. But, he said, ``It's not
going to mean that his priorities suddenly go away or that he's suddenly
going to abandon the regulatory philosophy that the administration from
the very top has embraced.''

``This is an administration that would like to reduce the overall
regulatory footprint of the federal government,'' Mr. Adler said.

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/climate?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{}

\hypertarget{climate-and-environment-}{%
\subsubsection{Climate and Environment
â€º}\label{climate-and-environment-}}

\hypertarget{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}{%
\paragraph{Keep Up on the Latest Climate
News}\label{keep-up-on-the-latest-climate-news}}

Updated July 30, 2020

Here's what you need to know about the latest climate change news this
week:

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Floods
    in}\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/bangladesh-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{Bangladesh}
    are punishing the people least responsible for climate change.
  \item
    As climate change raises sea levels,
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/30/climate/sea-level-inland-floods.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{storm
    surges and high tides} are likely to push farther inland.
  \item
    The E.P.A. inspector general plans to investigate whether a rollback
    of fuel efficiency standards
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/27/climate/trump-fuel-efficiency-rule.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_keepup}{violated
    government rules}.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Republicans said they have been delighted to discover Mr. Wheeler is as
enthusiastic about
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/10/05/climate/trump-environment-rules-reversed.html}{repealing
environmental regulations} and promoting coal as Mr. Pruitt was, and are
looking to him to cement Mr. Trump's legacy as a warrior against what
they see as regulatory overreach.

``He's been a very solid follow on to Scott Pruitt.'' said Michael
McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist. ``He's followed through in a
fairly aggressive fashion on everything Scott started.''

Mr. Wheeler has moved to dramatically weaken two of former President
Obama's signature climate change initiatives, cutting
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/20/climate/epa-clean-power-rollback.html}{emissions
from power plants} and from
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/02/climate/trump-auto-emissions-california.html}{automobiles},
while also proposing to make
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/04/climate/epa-coal-carbon-capture.html}{new
coal-fired power plants} easier to approve.

He also has also sought to unwind the legal justification for curbing
toxic
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/28/climate/mercury-coal-pollution-regulations.html}{mercury
emissions from power plants},
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/06/climate/trump-water-pollution-wotus-replacement.html}{limit
federal protection of small waterways}, and dismissed a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/11/climate/epa-disbands-pollution-science-panel.html}{panel
of independent scientific advisers}.

Some of the most consequential climate rollbacks are expected to be
finalized in the coming months. That will most likely touch off a
barrage of lawsuits from Democratic-governed states and environmental
activists who have vowed to fight the rollbacks.

Mary D. Nichols, who leads California's air quality agency, said she had
experienced firsthand the dissonance between Mr. Wheeler's demeanor and
his actions.

By spring of 2018, relations between the state and the Trump
administration had hit a low point amid a feud over California's right
to set automobile emissions standards stricter than the ones set by the
federal government. Mr. Pruitt had virtually no engagement with Ms.
Nichols. At one point, she asked him on Twitter to
``\href{https://twitter.com/MaryNicholsCA/status/989995570382041089}{call
me maybe}?''

So, about a week after Mr. Pruitt's resignation, when Mr. Wheeler called
her office at the California Air Resources Board, Ms. Nichols said she
was encouraged.

``He wanted to make sure I knew he was going to be more open and
accessible than his predecessor was,'' Ms. Nichols said. Nevertheless,
negotiations continued to stagnate.

``Everyone was polite, that was a welcomed change,'' she said. ``But
there was no difference in policy.''

The White House announced last week that the E.P.A. and the Department
of Transportation had
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/02/21/climate/california-tailpipe-emissions.html}{ended
talks with California} over its clean-air waiver. The move signaled that
the administration is closer to finalizing its rule to roll back
tailpipe emissions standards that were put in place under President
Barack Obama and will quite likely try to revoke California's ability to
set its own pollution rules.

``I have to say that I don't find him materially different than Scott
Pruitt in his policies or the mission that he has taken on,'' Ms.
Nichols said. ``The only difference really is that he is more polished
and more professional to deal with.''

On climate change, Mr. Wheeler also has taken a calibrated tone that
contrasts with his policies.

Unlike Mr. Pruitt who went on television to say
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/09/us/politics/epa-scott-pruitt-global-warming.html}{carbon
dioxide is not a primary contributor to global warming} and
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/08/climate/pruitt-climate-change.html}{rising
global temperatures might be good for humanity}, Mr. Wheeler told a
Senate confirmation panel in January that
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/16/climate/wheeler-senate-epa-confirmation-hearing.html}{``climate
change is real}.'' He rated his level of concern about climate change,
on a scale of 1 to 10, at an eight or nine.

But, two weeks later, he appointed John Christy, an atmospheric
scientist at the University of Alabama, Huntsville, who has testified
that the earth will benefit from more planet-warming emissions, to an
influential E.P.A. scientific advisory board.

And asked whether he intended to work with Congress to finalize a ban on
chlorpyrifos --- an insecticide associated with developmental delays and
cognitive impairments in children that Mr. Pruitt,
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/29/us/politics/epa-insecticide-chlorpyrifos.html}{acting
against the advice} of the
\href{https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=EPA-HQ-OPP-2015-0653-0001}{E.P.A.'s
own chemical safety experts}, chose not to remove from use --- Mr.
Wheeler assured lawmakers in a written statement that the agency was
``committed to fully evaluating this pesticide using the best available
science.''

Yet the agency under Mr. Wheeler's leadership had already challenged a
decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ordering the E.P.A. to ban
the pesticide. This month, the court ruled in favor of the challenge and
ordered a new hearing in the case.

E.P.A. officials did not respond to a request for comment on this
article.

Mr. Adler said that Mr. Wheeler's experience in Washington has helped
him avoid waving red flags in front of lawmakers. But ultimately, he
said, Mr. Wheeler is committed to fulfilling the president's agenda.

``There is a tendency to assume if someone is reasonable they're going
to agree with you,'' Mr. Adler said. ``Wheeler has a very conservative
view of environmental regulation and how it should be handled, and is
very much in line with this administration's overall regulatory
philosophy.''

Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.

For more news on climate and the environment,
\href{https://twitter.com/nytclimate}{follow @NYTClimate on Twitter}.

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{Â©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
