Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/world/middleeast}{Middle
East}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/world/middleeast}{Middle East}\textbar{}Mapping the
Damage From the Beirut Explosion

\url{https://nyti.ms/33mMSxk}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{beirut-explosion}{%
\subsubsection{Beirut Explosion}\label{beirut-explosion}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/11/world/middleeast/lebanon-government-resigns-explainer.html?name=styln-beirut\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=d4440f00-e38f-11ea-a0fd-ad25549458e4}{Lebanon
  in Political Limbo}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/video/beirut-explosion-footage.html?name=styln-beirut\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=d4443610-e38f-11ea-a0fd-ad25549458e4}{Footage
  of the Blast}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-ammonium-nitrate.html?name=styln-beirut\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=d4443611-e38f-11ea-a0fd-ad25549458e4}{What
  is Ammonium Nitrate?}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/08/04/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-damage.html?name=styln-beirut\&region=TOP_BANNER\&variant=undefined\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Interactive\&impression_id=d4443612-e38f-11ea-a0fd-ad25549458e4}{Mapping
  the Damage}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{comments}{%
\subsection{\texorpdfstring{\protect\hyperlink{commentsContainer}{Comments}}{Comments}}\label{comments}}

\href{}{Mapping the Damage From the Beirut Explosion}\href{}{Skip to
Comments}

The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for
publication, write to
\href{mailto:letters@NYTimes.com}{\nolinkurl{letters@NYTimes.com}}.

\hypertarget{mapping-the-damage-from-the-beirut-explosion}{%
\section{Mapping the Damage From the Beirut
Explosion}\label{mapping-the-damage-from-the-beirut-explosion}}

By \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/anjali-singhvi}{Anjali
Singhvi}, Scott Reinhard,
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/allison-mccann}{Allison
McCann},
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/lauren-leatherby}{Lauren
Leatherby} and
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/by/blacki-migliozzi}{Blacki
Migliozzi}Aug. 5, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
  \emph{49}
\end{itemize}

LEBANON

Beirut

Explosions
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion.html}{erupted
in Lebanon's capital} on Tuesday evening, leveling buildings, damaging
hospitals and shattering windows for miles. More than 5,000 people were
injured and at least 135 were killed.

A shock wave raced from the site of the blast, on Beirut's industrial
waterfront, into the city's densely populated residential neighborhoods
and downtown shopping districts. Dozens of nearby buildings ---
including grain silos storing
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-what-happened.html}{around
85 percent of the country's grain} --- were severely damaged or
destroyed, imagery from the aftermath showed.

SITE OF EXPLOSION

Warehouse storing

ammonium nitrate

Destroyed

grain silos

PORT OF

BEIRUT

SITE OF EXPLOSION

Warehouse storing

ammonium nitrate

Destroyed grain silos

PORT OF

BEIRUT

SITE OF EXPLOSION

Warehouse storing

ammonium nitrate

Destroyed grain silos

PORT OF

BEIRUT

Source: \href{https://www.instagram.com/rabzthecopter/}{@rabzthecopter}

Officials said it appeared the
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/08/05/world/middleeast/beirut-explosion-what-happened.html}{larger
blast was caused by the detonation} of more than 2,700 tons of highly
explosive ammonium nitrate that had been stored in a warehouse at the
port since it was confiscated from a cargo ship in 2014.

Satellite image captured after the explosion

JISR

PORT OF

BEIRUT

KARANTINA

BEIRUT CENTRAL

DISTRICT

Patients evacuated

from Karantina

Hospital

Capsized ship

SITE OF EXPLOSIONS

Beirut Port Silos

and surrounding

buildings severely

damaged

Warehouse storing

`explosive materials'

Warehouses destroyed

or damaged

Glass shattered in

upscale shopping district

AL MARFA'A

Charles Helou

Facade stripped

off towers

Damaged

buildings

Storefronts

shattered downtown

Damage at

Grand Serail

Armenia St.

Charles Helou

MAR MIKHAEL

Armenia St.

Damaged

buildings

GEMMAYZEH

Rubble

GEITAWI

Mohammad

AlAmin Mosque

St. George

Hospital damaged

Wounded children

in Gemmayzeh

Charles Malek

Damage on Charles Malek

BACHOURA

BEIRUT

Independance

Damage at Sodeco

Square mall

Apartment windows

blown out in Achrafieh

Damage at Hôtel-Dieu de

France hospital, where

around 400 injured

people were later taken.

BOURJ ABI HAYDAR

SODECO

Satellite image captured after the explosion

JISR

PORT OF

BEIRUT

KARANTINA

BEIRUT CENTRAL

DISTRICT

Patients evacuated

from Karantina

Hospital

Capsized ship

SITE OF EXPLOSIONS

Beirut Port Silos

and surrounding

buildings severely

damaged

Warehouse storing

`explosive materials'

Warehouses destroyed

or damaged

Glass shattered in

upscale shopping district

AL MARFA'A

Charles Helou

Facade stripped

off towers

Damaged

buildings

Storefronts

shattered downtown

Armenia St.

Charles Helou

MAR MIKHAEL

Armenia St.

Damaged

buildings

GEMMAYZEH

Rubble

GEITAWI

Mohammad

AlAmin Mosque

Damage at

Grand Serail

St. George

Hospital damaged

Wounded children

in Gemmayzeh

Charles Malek

Damage on Charles Malek

BACHOURA

BEIRUT

Independance

Damage at Sodeco

Square mall

Apartment windows

blown out in Achrafieh

BOURJ ABI HAYDAR

SODECO

Damage at Hôtel-Dieu de

France hospital, where

around 400 injured

people were later taken.

Satellite image captured after the explosion

PORT OF

BEIRUT

Patients

evacuated

from Karantina

Hospital

BEIRUT CENTRAL

DISTRICT

Capsized

ship

SITE OF EXPLOSIONS

Beirut Port Silos

and surrounding

buildings severely

damaged

Warehouse storing

`explosive materials'

KARANTINA

Warehouses destroyed

or damaged

Glass shattered in

upscale shopping district

AL MARFA'A

Facade stripped

off towers

Storefronts

shattered downtown

Charles Helou

MAR MIKHAEL

GEMMAYZEH

Damaged

buildings

GEITAWI

Damage at

Grand Serail

Rubble

Mohammad

AlAmin Mosque

St. George

Hospital damaged

Charles Malek

BACHOURA

BEIRUT

Independance

Damage at Sodeco

Square mall

Apartment windows

blown out in Achrafieh

Damage at Hôtel-Dieu de

France hospital, where

around 400 injured

people were later taken.

BOURJ ABI HAYDAR

SODECO

Satellite image captured after the explosion

PORT OF

BEIRUT

BEIRUT CENTRAL

DISTRICT

SITE OF EXPLOSIONS

Beirut Port Silos

and surrounding

buildings severely

damaged

Warehouse storing

`explosive materials'

Warehouses destroyed

or damaged

Glass blankets ground

in upscale shopping district

AL MARFA'A

Facade stripped

off towers

Storefronts

shattered downtown

Charles Helou

MAR MIKHAEL

GEMMAYZEH

Damaged

buildings

Rubble

Mohammad

AlAmin Mosque

St. George

Hospital damaged

Charles Malek

BEIRUT

Damage at Sodeco

Square mall

Apartment windows

blown out in Achrafieh

Damage at Hotel Dieu

hospital, where around

400 injured people

were later taken

SODECO

Satellite image captured after the explosion

PORT OF

BEIRUT

BEIRUT CENTRAL

DISTRICT

SITE OF

EXPLOSIONS

Warehouse

storing `explosive

materials'

Beirut Port Silos

and surrounding

buildings severely

damaged

Warehouses destroyed

or damaged

AL MARFA'A

Facade stripped

off towers

Storefronts

shattered downtown

Charles Helou

MAR MIKHAEL

GEMMAYZEH

Damaged

buildings

Rubble

Mohammad

AlAmin Mosque

St. George

Hospital

damaged

Charles Malek

BEIRUT

Damage at Sodeco

Square mall

Apartment windows

blown out in Achrafieh

Damage at Hôtel-Dieu de

France hospital, where

around 400 injured

people were later taken.

SODECO

By The New York Times·Sources: Damage locations based on photos and
video showing destruction from the blast. Satellite images from Planet
Labs (after) and Bing (before). Street data from OpenStreetMap.

The second of the two blasts could be heard in Cyprus, more than 100
miles away.
\href{https://twitter.com/MinaSohail/status/1290707117264064512}{Broken
glass and debris} could be seen two miles away, encompassing an area
where more than 750,000 people live.

PORT OF BEIRUT

SITE OF

EXPLOSIONS

.5 miles

9,000 residents

1 mile

116,000 residents

2 miles

778,000 residents

Residents per

10,000 sq. meters

0

3 miles

1,862,000 residents

1,900

1 MILE

PORT OF BEIRUT

SITE OF

EXPLOSIONS

.5 miles

9,000 residents

1 mile

116,000 residents

Residents per

10,000 sq. meters

2 miles

778,000 residents

0

3 miles

1,862,000 residents

1,900

1 MILE

SITE OF

EXPLOSIONS

.5 miles

9,000 residents

1 mile

116,000 residents

2 miles

778,000 residents

3 miles

1,862,000 residents

1 MILE

By The New York Times. Population figures are approximate. Population
data from \href{https://www.worldpop.org/}{WorldPop}, University of
Southampton. Satellite image from Bing.

The explosions erupted next to a tall building called the Beirut Port
Silos, which could be seen partially collapsed amid the rubble of nearby
buildings. Several fires burned across the port area, seen in this
panoramic image.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/08/04/beirut-explosion/assets/images/beirut_4_port_panorama-2000.png}

Panoramic image by The New York Times, stitched together from several
photos from
\href{https://twitter.com/PsychologyDoc/status/1290705761467801601}{the
site}.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/packages/flash/multimedia/ICONS/transparent.png}

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/newsgraphics/2020/08/04/beirut-explosion/assets/images/husseinmalla_associatedpress-2000.png}

Hussein Malla/Associated Press

Videos and photos taken from the scene showed a thick cloud of gray
smoke hovering over the Mediterranean before an enormous burst of red
and orange fumes exploded into the sky.

The New York Times

\textbf{Correction:}~Aug. 5, 2020

A key for a population density map in a previous version of this story
gave the wrong value. The map shows residents per 10,000 square meters,
not per 100 square meters.

Read 49 Comments

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
