Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/politics}{Politics}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes.com/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper}{Today's Paper}

\href{/section/politics}{Politics}\textbar{}Tape Made Public of Trump
Discussing Ukraine With Donors

\url{https://nyti.ms/37slld1}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Election
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Biden's
  V.P. Search}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/07/24/us/politics/trump-biden-campaign-donors.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Map
  of Donations}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/elections/delegate-count-primary-results.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Delegate
  Count}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/us/politics/2020-presidential-candidates.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{The
  Candidates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=TOP_BANNER\&context=storylines_menu}{Politics
  Newsletter}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{tape-made-public-of-trump-discussing-ukraine-with-donors}{%
\section{Tape Made Public of Trump Discussing Ukraine With
Donors}\label{tape-made-public-of-trump-discussing-ukraine-with-donors}}

The recording from a dinner in 2018 showed that the president spent an
hour with two key players in the Ukraine pressure campaign. He has
repeatedly said he does not know them.

\includegraphics{https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/01/26/us/25subJPdc-tape-print/merlin_167805396_703fb878-c180-45bc-99a9-23380b3431a4-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg}

By \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/kenneth-p-vogel}{Kenneth P. Vogel}
and \href{https://www.nytimes.com/by/ben-protess}{Ben Protess}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Published Jan. 25, 2020Updated Jan. 26, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

WASHINGTON --- For more than an hour one evening in 2018, President
Trump sat around a dinner table in a private suite in his Washington
hotel with a group of donors, including two men at the center of the
impeachment inquiry, talking about golf, trade, politics --- and
removing the United States ambassador to Ukraine.

The conversation, captured on a recording made public Saturday,
contradicted Mr. Trump's repeated statements that he does not know the
two men, Lev Parnas and Igor Fruman, who went on to work with the
president's personal lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani to carry out a pressure
campaign on Ukraine.

The recording --- a video shot on Mr. Fruman's phone during the dinner
in April 2018 --- largely confirmed Mr. Parnas's account of having
raised with Mr. Trump criticisms of the ambassador to Kyiv at the time,
Marie L. Yovanovitch, and the president's immediate order that Ms.
Yovanovitch should be removed from the post.

``Get rid of her,'' Mr. Trump can be heard responding.

The recording was made public by Mr. Parnas's lawyer, Joseph A. Bondy,
hours after the president's lawyers began presenting their defense in
the impeachment trial and as Democrats looked for leverage to persuade
Republicans to support their calls to expand the inquiry by introducing
additional evidence and calling new witnesses.

\emph{{[}Six}
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/26/us/politics/trump-recording-parnas-ukraine.html}{\emph{revelatory
moments}} \emph{from the video of Trump's private donor dinner.{]}}

Mr. Bondy said it was being released in ``an effort to provide clarity
to the American people and the Senate as to the need to conduct a fair
trial, with witnesses and evidence.''

In the recording, Mr. Parnas, who is the more talkative of the two,
broached an energy deal the two were pursuing in Ukraine, and then went
on to discuss several themes that later became central to the pressure
campaign. He claimed that Ms. Yovanovitch, whose name he did not cite,
had been disparaging Mr. Trump. He said that the Ukrainians ``were
supporting the Clintons all these years.'' He even mentioned in passing
the family of the former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.

The recording does not appear to introduce substantive new information
about the effort to oust Ms. Yovanovitch.

But it does seem to shed light on the origins of Mr. Trump's interest in
the issue, and to foreshadow his administration's withholding of
military assistance from the country as part of the pressure campaign.
It hints at the motivations of Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman, who had come
to believe that Ms. Yovanovitch was opposed to their business plans in
Ukraine, where they had tried to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/07/us/politics/rick-perry-ukraine.html}{break
into the natural gas market}, according to associates of the two men,
both of whom are Soviet-born American citizens.

And it provides a glimpse of something rarely seen: top-tier political
donors getting a chance in an intimate setting to share their views with
the president and press their agendas with him.

During the dinner, Mr. Trump lashed out at the European Union for trying
to ``screw'' the United States, assailed the World Trade Organization as
a ``weapon'' intended to harm America and lamented the ``globalists''
around him who do not care if manufacturing plants shutter.

Democrats are seeking Mr. Trump's removal from office on the grounds
that he abused his power by pressing Ukraine to investigate targets of
the president, including Mr. Biden and his son, Hunter Biden. Mr. Parnas
and Mr. Fruman worked closely with Mr. Giuliani in seeking information
and making contacts in Ukraine in support of the effort, starting months
after the April 2018 dinner.

For most of the recording, the camera is pointed at the ceiling but the
audio is clear. Early in the recording, Mr. Trump can be seen as he
enters the private room at the Trump International Hotel in Washington
on April 30, 2018.

The existence and some of the conversation in the recording were
\href{https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/recording-appears-capture-trump-private-dinner-ukraine-ambassador/story?id=68506437}{first
reported by ABC News} on Friday.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-2020-election}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: 2020
Election}}{Latest Updates: 2020 Election}}\label{latest-updates-2020-election}}

Updated 2020-08-01T01:26:45.732Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-29fdff45}{Kamala
  Harris, a top vice-presidential contender, confronts double
  standards.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-13ec3d9c}{Karen
  Bass and Susan Rice are rising on Biden's vice-presidential
  shortlist.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-49e9a016}{Trump
  says Russian bounties to kill U.S. troops `never took place.'}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/elections/biden-vs-trump.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

The effort to oust Ms. Yovanovitch would later become directly linked to
the broader pressure campaign on Ukraine waged by Mr. Giuliani, Mr.
Parnas and Mr. Fruman. Evidence provided to House investigators showed
that Mr. Parnas was in regular contact last year with Ukraine's chief
prosecutor, who also wanted Ms. Yovanovitch replaced, and seemed to be
willing to trade investigations of Mr. Biden for her removal and other
signs of support from the Trump administration.

By the time of the dinner with Mr. Trump, Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman
already saw Ms. Yovanovitch as an impediment to their efforts to get
into the energy business in Ukraine.

In the full recording released on Saturday, Mr. Parnas can be heard
telling Mr. Trump that he and Mr. Fruman ``are in the process of
purchasing an energy company in Ukraine right now.''

Mr. Trump responds, ``How's Ukraine doing?'' then quickly adds, ``Don't
answer,'' prompting laughter in the room.

After some conversation about Ukraine's war with its hostile neighbor,
Russia, and its efforts to establish energy security, Mr. Trump asked,
``How long would they last in a fight with Russia?''

``I don't think very long,'' Mr. Parnas responded. ``Without us, not
very long,'' adding ``they feel they're going to be O.K. if you support
them.''

Mr. Parnas continued by saying that ``the biggest problem is corruption
there,'' and later added Ms. Yovanovitch, though not by name, to a list
of issues Mr. Trump should address in Ukraine.

``The biggest problem there, I think, where we, where you, need to start
is we got to get rid of the ambassador,'' he said. ``She's basically
walking around telling everybody, `Wait, he's going to get impeached,
just wait.'''

The remark prompted laughter in the room.

Mr. Trump asked for the ambassador's name. Mr. Fruman said, ``I don't
remember.'' Mr. Trump, sounding stern, then said: ``Get rid of her. Get
her out tomorrow. I don't care. Get her out tomorrow. Take her out.
O.K.? Do it.''

Those comments were directed at one of Mr. Trump's aides who was in the
room at the time, Mr. Parnas has previously said. There was some
additional laughter in the room at Mr. Trump's remarks.

Ms. Yovanovitch remained in her job for another year after Mr. Trump's
remarks until she was recalled on the White House's orders. It is not
clear whether the president changed his mind, forgot about his order or
was talked out of dismissing her. Mr. Parnas has recently acknowledged
that he was wrong about Ms. Yovanovitch, who has denied ever disparaging
Mr. Trump.

The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Mr. Trump has previously acknowledged that he had problems with Ms.
Yovanovitch but has defended his actions as appropriate, given that
presidents have the right to name and replace ambassadors as they see
fit.

Mr. Parnas and Mr. Fruman gained access to the dinner, which was
organized by a pro-Trump super PAC, America First Action, by pledging to
donate \$1 million to the group.

The month after the event, they
\href{http://docquery.fec.gov/cgi-bin/fecimg/?201807159115673127}{donated
\$325,000 to the group} through a company they had recently formed to
pursue energy deals called Global Energy Producers.

At the beginning of the video, the person holding the phone walks around
the private suite filming chatter among the guests, who included Donald
Trump Jr., Jack Nicklaus III, the grandson and namesake of the legendary
golfer, and Barry Zekelman, a Canadian billionaire whose steel business
is mostly in the United States.

Later, Mr. Trump said to attendees, ``This is all sort of, like, off the
record, right?''

During the dinner, attendees fawned over Mr. Trump and seemed to revel
in their ability to ask him for direct help with business issues.

In the meandering conversation, Mr. Trump defended the aggressive
actions he was taking against China and explained that he overruled
advisers who urged him to take a softer approach because the United
States was already so deeply on the losing end of the relationship.

``They're tough, but I always say when you're \$500 billion down, you
can't lose the trade war,'' Mr. Trump said, referring to the bilateral
trade deficit the United States runs with China.

Mr. Trump, who has since reached a trade truce with China, foreshadowed
his next big trade fight, taking aim at the European Union.

``The European Union is a group of countries that got together to screw
the United States, it's as simple as that,'' Mr. Trump said, adding that
such a notion is surprising because ``we're all sort of from there,
right?''

The conversation came just one month after Mr. Trump had slapped tariffs
on foreign steel and aluminum, including metals imported from Europe.

At the dinner, Mr. Trump repeatedly praised the tariffs, though he
occasionally expressed concern that they could reduce the amount of
available metals. ``I don't want to be at a point where we don't have
enough steel in this country,'' he said. A few minutes later, he added,
``You're going to see prices go up. Hopefully not too much.''

It has been a decade since legal changes paved the way for unlimited
donations to super PACs, **** making such gatherings an even more
explicit demonstration of how a large political payment can turn into
access to push a special interest.

The donors competed for time to walk through their sometimes conflicting
issues, one by one, pitching the president to take up their causes
almost as if they were on ``Shark Tank,'' the reality television show,
looking for investors in their ideas.

Mr. Zekelman, a Canadian citizen who owns a
\href{https://www.zekelman.com/company/management-team/barry-zekelman/}{steel
tube manufacturing company} that donated \$1.75 million to the political
action committee supporting Mr. Trump, pushed the president on what he
saw as the top two challenges facing his company: cheap steel tube
imports from Asia and new federal rules that make it harder to find
truck drivers.

He first urged Mr. Trump to go even further in his effort to limit steel
imports to the United States, and he then questioned the rules intended
to prevent fatal truck accidents by using electronic monitoring systems
to limit how many hours drivers can be on the road.

Since that dinner,
\href{https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/house-bill/1697?q=\%7B\%22search\%22\%3A\%5B\%22S.+1463\%22\%5D\%7D\&s=1\&r=51}{legislation
has been introduced in the House} with the co-sponsorship of 12
Republicans, including the brother of Vice President Mike Pence, to
allow smaller trucking companies to get exemptions from the rule.

Mr. Zekelman is not legally allowed under federal law to make a
contribution to the political action committee. So his company donated
the money through one of its subsidiaries based in the United States, a
maneuver that has generated a complaint with the Federal Election
Commission that he might have violated federal election law, after The
New York Times
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/20/us/politics/hes-one-of-the-biggest-backers-of-trumps-push-to-protect-american-steel-and-hes-canadian.html}{wrote
about the donations last year}.

One attendee told Mr. Trump that he operates a company that supplies
trucks powered by compressed natural gas and urged Mr. Trump to take
steps to make the business more competitive with electric powered trucks
or cars.

Another, who said he runs a company that does business with the United
States Postal Service, pushed Mr. Trump to consider backing the
construction of a 500-mile section of highway in the United States that
would be used exclusively by self-driving trucks. Paying truck drivers,
he said, is one of his company's biggest costs.

``All the technology is there, right now,'' he said. ``It is absolutely
safe.''

Mr. Parnas did not limit his efforts to influence Mr. Trump to Ukraine.
He can be heard trying to engage Mr. Trump about issues related to
another business venture he would go on to pursue --- a
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/23/us/kukushkin-giuliani-russia-cannabis-marijuana.html}{plan
to win marijuana retail licenses} in Nevada and elsewhere.

He appeared to ask Mr. Trump to consider changing regulations that banks
have said made it difficult for them to
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2014/02/15/us/us-issues-marijuana-guidelines-for-banks.html}{process
transactions related to the cannabis business}.

``Have you thought about allowing banking in some of these states that
allow cannabis?'' Mr. Parnas asked.

``What?'' Mr. Trump responded. ``You can't do banking there?''

Mr. Parnas said banking regulations were ``the biggest problem'' for the
industry, and argued that the issue could help Mr. Trump politically. If
the president created a bipartisan committee to study it, Mr. Parnas
argued ``you can know what's going on, and make the right decision. By
just putting the committee together, it will give you such a boost in
the midterm with a lot of the millennials.''

Mr. Trump expressed some skepticism, saying marijuana use has led to
``more accidents'' and asserting ``it does cause an I.Q. problem.''

But Donald Trump Jr. seemed more agreeable, arguing ``between that and
alcohol, as far as I'm concerned alcohol does much more damage,'' and
asserting ``you don't see people beating their wives on marijuana. It's
just different.''

A spokesman for the younger Mr. Trump did not respond to a request for
comment.

In the months after the dinner, Mr. Parnas, Mr. Fruman and two
associates tried to enlist political support for an effort to win
marijuana retail licenses in Nevada and elsewhere by planning to spend
\$1 million to \$2 million for potential political donations, some of
which prosecutors say was funded by a Russian investor, according to an
\href{https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/10/us/politics/lev-parnas-igor-fruman-arrested-giuliani.html}{indictment
against the men}.

They have pleaded not guilty.

Kenneth P. Vogel reported from Washington, and Ben Protess from New
York. Alan Rappeport, Jim Tankersley and Eric Lipton contributed
reporting from Washington.

\hypertarget{our-2020-election-guide}{%
\section{Our 2020 Election Guide}\label{our-2020-election-guide}}

Updated July 31, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{the-latest}{%
  \subsection{The Latest}\label{the-latest}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    President Trump's assault on the Postal Service is intersecting with
    his attacks on mail-in voting.
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/31/us/politics/trump-usps-mail-delays.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Voting
    rights groups say it is a recipe for disaster.}
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{bidens-vp-search}{%
  \subsection{Biden's V.P. Search}\label{bidens-vp-search}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/article/biden-vice-president-2020.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{Here
    are 13 women} who have been under consideration to be Joe Biden's
    running mate, and why each might be chosen --- and might not be.
  \end{itemize}
\item
  \begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

  \hypertarget{keep-up-with-our-coverage}{%
  \subsection{Keep Up With Our
  Coverage}\label{keep-up-with-our-coverage}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Get an
    \href{https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/politics?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=BELOW_MAIN_CONTENT\&context=storylines_guide}{email}
    recapping the day's news
  \end{itemize}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Download our mobile app on
    \href{https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nytimes/id284862083?ls=1\&mat_click_id=5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\&referrer=mat_click_id\%3D5c79ae7455014fd1bd66b5610c05b8f2-20191112-16948\%26link_click_id\%3D722930677036718082}{iOS}
    and
    \href{http://a.localytics.com/android?id=com.nytimes.android\&referrer=utm_source\%3Dother_nyt_mobile_web\%26utm_medium\%3DWeb\%2520page\%26utm_term\%3DGeneral\%2520Mobile\%2520Page\%26utm_campaign\%3DNYT\%2520Mobile\%2520General\%2520Page}{Android}
    and turn on Breaking News and Politics alerts
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes.com}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
