Sections

SEARCH

\protect\hyperlink{site-content}{Skip to
content}\protect\hyperlink{site-index}{Skip to site index}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}

\href{https://myaccount.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/auth/login?response_type=cookie\&client_id=vi}{}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/section/todayspaper}{Today's
Paper}

\href{/section/fashion/weddings}{Love}\textbar{}When the Story Line Is
This Easy, You Just Know

\url{https://nyti.ms/332WxHI}

\begin{itemize}
\item
\item
\item
\item
\item
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\subsubsection{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=39088510-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{The
Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  live\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=39088511-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{Latest
  Updates}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3908ac20-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{Maps
  and Cases}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus-vaccine-tracker.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3908ac21-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{Vaccine
  Tracker}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/02/your-money/eviction-moratorium-covid.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3908ac22-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{Eviction
  Moratorium}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/interactive/2020/09/02/magazine/food-insecurity-hunger-us.html?name=styln-coronavirus-national\&region=TOP_BANNER\&block=storyline_menu_recirc\&action=click\&pgtype=Article\&impression_id=3908ac23-f295-11ea-9b1f-ab8611e6ed59\&variant=undefined}{American
  Hunger}
\end{itemize}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-top}{Continue reading the main story}

Supported by

\protect\hyperlink{after-sponsor}{Continue reading the main story}

vows

\hypertarget{when-the-story-line-is-this-easy-you-just-know}{%
\section{When the Story Line Is This Easy, You Just
Know}\label{when-the-story-line-is-this-easy-you-just-know}}

Monica Clark, a lawyer who penned a novel about love without
``struggle,'' found that her real life love story with Will Jones, a TV
reporter in Chicago, followed suit.

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/fashion/04Vows-Chicago6/merlin_175550559_2b7006b7-8576-41ad-8e18-c613929381e6-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

By Claire Zulkey

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Sept. 4, 2020
\item
  \begin{itemize}
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \item
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

Will Ryan Jones had some time to kill before attending a party hosted by
the Cameroon Embassy in Washington, so he asked Monica Marie Clark if he
could tag along with her to her friend's birthday party.

Mr. Jones and Ms. Clark had crossed paths before at mutual friends'
gatherings, but this time, they were both single. Mr. Jones, 36, a
television reporter at WLS-TV in Chicago, had traveled to town in the
summer of 2018 for the embassy party. That morning he found himself,
thanks to friends, seated at a brunch next to Ms. Clark, 36, then a
senior counsel in the legal division of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.

Mr. Jones, Ms. Clark and her friends moved on to Marvin, a bistro in
Washington's U Street corridor. The evening was sultry, but they found
an oasis on the bar's rooftop, where the drinks flowed and the DJ spun
'90s R\&B. ``I was talking about my relationship philosophy,'' Mr. Jones
said. ``When two people come together, you should become your better
selves. I think we should support each other. As I was talking, Monica's
eyes just changed. You know how in sitcoms, someone is in love and the
music starts to play? It's kind of corny, but I saw my future.''

\includegraphics{https://static01.graylady3jvrrxbe.onion/images/2020/09/04/fashion/04Vows-Chicago03/merlin_175550487_5f6a36cc-da3f-4b48-ab9d-058257edaaf7-articleLarge.jpg?quality=75\&auto=webp\&disable=upscale}

Ms. Clark, a graduate of Harvard and Georgetown Law who grew up in
Jamaica Estates, Queens, also felt a special connection. She recognized
in Mr. Jones the same values of ambition and duty with which her parents
had raised her and her older brother. ``I feel a responsibility to
achieve something because I grew up in a privileged household and I'm a
Black person,'' she said. ``I agreed with everything he was saying. I
had never had that experience before.''

They did not kiss that evening, but Mr. Jones returned to Washington the
next week for a proper first date. ``I wanted to see if it was the
alcohol or if this is my life,'' he said. While they ate hamburgers at a
restaurant on the Potomac, their server pointed out some other patrons
trying to get Mr. Jones's attention --- they recognized him from his
reporting job in Chicago. ``I planned that,'' Mr. Jones said, jokingly.

Ms. Clark had noticed during their earlier interactions that Mr. Jones
had a nice speaking voice, but during the bottomless mimosa brunch, she
was also drawn to his smile and his understated style. ``He's
reflective, he's got his stuff together,'' she said, ``and he had nice
style.''

It was the type of love story that Ms. Clark had always been drawn to.
She is a fan of classic Black romantic movies like ``Love Jones'' ** and
``Brown Sugar'' from the late 1990s and early 2000s. She'd even written
her own unpublished romance manuscript, ``Lessons From Robin,'' chosen
as a Marlene Award Finalist by Washington Romance Writers in 2014.
``There aren't that many stories out there with Black characters that
are just a love story that aren't a struggle,'' she said. ``Whenever I
saw one, it fed your soul, this is so great, a love story. I wanted to
create one.''

\emph{{[}}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/newsletters/love-letter?module=inline}{\emph{Sign
up for Love Letter and always get the latest in Modern Love, weddings,
and relationships in the news by email.}}\emph{{]}}

Image

The two began dating after making a connection in the summer of 2018 in
Washington.Credit...Lyndon French for The New York Times

She and Mr. Jones began a long-distance relationship, showing off their
respective towns and getting to know each other. They shared similar
backgrounds. Mr. Jones received his degree in journalism from
Northwestern, while Ms. Clark was a news editor for The Harvard Crimson
in college. Both had been raised by loving, long-married parents with
high expectations for their children. Ms. Clark is the daughter of Dr.
Luther Clark, a cardiologist and deputy chief patient officer at Merck,
and Camille Clark, who retired as assistant executive director of
Forestdale, a child welfare agency in Queens.

\hypertarget{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Latest
Updates: The Coronavirus
Outbreak}}{Latest Updates: The Coronavirus Outbreak}}\label{latest-updates-the-coronavirus-outbreak}}

Updated 2020-09-09T11:49:12.203Z

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-70cea8bb}{As
  drugmakers pledge to thoroughly vet a vaccine, one company pauses its
  trials for a safety review.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-780eaa2f}{Britain
  is expected to ban gatherings of more than six people.}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates\#link-11cec4c0}{Quarantine
  breakdowns at colleges in the U.S. are leaving some at risk.}
\end{itemize}

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/09/09/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{See
more updates}

More live coverage:
\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/live/2020/09/09/business/stock-market-today-coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_1\&context=storylines_live_updates}{Markets}

``I think a lot of people's parents were like, `Get good grades,''' Ms.
Clark said. ``My parents cared about that, but they were very strategic:
`You need to run for office, get a leadership role on the newspaper.' Me
and my brother, having parents who were very focused on the college
process, it motivated us.'' She now serves as the vice president of the
Harvard Black Alumni Society.

Mr. Jones, his older brother and younger sister were raised in Forest
Park, a Cincinnati suburb, the son of Will Jones, a retired Cincinnati
Fire Department firefighter, and Marlinda Jones, a retired AT\&T project
manager. In 2012, Mr. Jones won an Emmy for his work with the Detroit
station WDIV covering an immigrant advocacy nonprofit organization that
he had volunteered with. He now chairs the scholarship committee for the
Chicago chapter of the National Association of Black Journalists.

Mr. Jones said that he wanted ``to be with someone who is trying to be
their best, whatever that may be. If someone's ambitious, it shows
they're not someone who is just going to settle in life.''

But as Ms. Clark said she has found out that ``not everybody wants an
accomplished woman. With Will, he actually appreciated that about me.''

Image

The bride wore a Vera Wang gown with an oversize organza flower pinned
above the bodice.Credit...Lyndon French for The New York Times

About a year and a half after their first date, Mr. Jones wanted to
propose with a grand gesture, and started with a phone call to Dr. Clark
to state his intentions. ``I have a younger sister; I knew if my sister
would move out of Cincinnati for a relationship, there would have been a
lot of drama,'' Mr. Jones said. The two men ended up having a friendly
45-minute conversation.

Mr. Jones meticulously planned a proposal on Nov. 2, 2019, scheduling a
haircut, a beard shaping and then an Uber to the LondonHouse hotel in
Chicago where they would begin their date. He booked a saxophonist and
photographer and found a spot near the city's downtown river walk where
the artists could look inconspicuous. ``I went to that location probably
10 times,'' he said. ``I practiced getting on one knee. I checked the
weather report for the last seven years: `Is it going to snow or rain?'
I knew Monica wouldn't want to get her hair wet.''

The couple strolled along the Chicago river walk, and on its steps, Mr.
Jones proposed with a 1.8-carat, pear-shaped diamond ring surrounded by
a halo of smaller stones purchased in Chicago's Jeweler's Row. Ms. Clark
said yes, and they hugged and celebrated while the saxophonist played
tunes by Mary J. Blige and K-Ci \& JoJo.

Ms. Clark found a Chicago job as senior legal counsel at the food and
beverage ingredient manufacturer Tate \& Lyle in Hoffman Estates, Ill.,
and moved in with Mr. Jones in a Wicker Park apartment with her cat,
Jack. They hung art passed on to them from Ms. Clark's mother, a Harlem
Renaissance and African art collector who has donated pieces and books
to the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Modern Art. The couple began
planning their nuptials, excited to show off Chicago to their 150
guests.

Then the coronavirus began to surface. As they inched closer to their
scheduled Aug. 8 wedding date, the couple reluctantly canceled their New
York engagement, bachelor and bachelorette parties and watched with
dread as other friends' weddings were postponed.

On April 18, while covering a press briefing with Gov. J.B. Pritzker,
Mr. Jones asked what he'd advise people considering holding weddings,
reunions and other family gatherings over the summer. Ms. Clark watched
from home as the governor offered a 73-second response that provided no
definitive answer, and no reassurance. ``I saw the writing on the
wall,'' Mr. Jones said. ``Days later Monica and I made the decision to
postpone our wedding.''

They were, of course, disappointed. But the couple decided to move
forward with a small wedding and reschedule the larger celebration.
``She didn't stay down for long,'' Mr. Jones said of Ms. Clark. ``She's
easy to cheer up. I like that.''

While planning a smaller ceremony, the couple found themselves
witnessing another piece of history: On May 31, Mr. Jones was assigned
to cover the George Floyd protests in downtown Chicago. He stood on a
Loop sidewalk strewn with hangers from a nearby Macy's when a group of
four young masked men walked by.
\href{https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?tab=mm\#search/zulkey/FMfcgxwJXLcWXRSMqHhJjhDJTHWTZLjq?projector=1}{Mr.
Jones interviewed} them for several minutes, gently reminding them to at
times avoid using bad language, about why they came out to demonstrate
that night. ``What can the police do to improve the relationship with
young Black men like yourself?'' he asked.

``I got it,'' answered one, stepping forward. ``For real. They need to
make it so that the police live in the towns and the communities that
they're trying to police,'' he said.

\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/news-event/coronavirus?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{}

\hypertarget{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}{%
\subsubsection{The Coronavirus Outbreak
›}\label{the-coronavirus-outbreak-}}

\hypertarget{frequently-asked-questions}{%
\paragraph{Frequently Asked
Questions}\label{frequently-asked-questions}}

Updated September 4, 2020

\begin{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}{%
  \paragraph{What are the symptoms of
  coronavirus?}\label{what-are-the-symptoms-of-coronavirus}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    In the beginning, the coronavirus
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-facts-history.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq\#link-6817bab5}{seemed
    like it was primarily a respiratory illness}~--- many patients had
    fever and chills, were weak and tired, and coughed a lot, though
    some people don't show many symptoms at all. Those who seemed
    sickest had pneumonia or acute respiratory distress syndrome and
    received supplemental oxygen. By now, doctors have identified many
    more symptoms and syndromes. In April,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/27/health/coronavirus-symptoms-cdc.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{the
    C.D.C. added to the list of early signs}~sore throat, fever, chills
    and muscle aches. Gastrointestinal upset, such as diarrhea and
    nausea, has also been observed. Another telltale sign of infection
    may be a sudden, profound diminution of one's
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/03/22/health/coronavirus-symptoms-smell-taste.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{sense
    of smell and taste.}~Teenagers and young adults in some cases have
    developed painful red and purple lesions on their fingers and toes
    --- nicknamed ``Covid toe'' --- but few other serious symptoms.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}{%
  \paragraph{Why is it safer to spend time together
  outside?}\label{why-is-it-safer-to-spend-time-together-outside}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/15/us/coronavirus-what-to-do-outside.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{Outdoor
    gatherings}~lower risk because wind disperses viral droplets, and
    sunlight can kill some of the virus. Open spaces prevent the virus
    from building up in concentrated amounts and being inhaled, which
    can happen when infected people exhale in a confined space for long
    stretches of time, said Dr. Julian W. Tang, a virologist at the
    University of Leicester.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}{%
  \paragraph{Why does standing six feet away from others
  help?}\label{why-does-standing-six-feet-away-from-others-help}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    The coronavirus spreads primarily through droplets from your mouth
    and nose, especially when you cough or sneeze. The C.D.C., one of
    the organizations using that measure,
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/04/14/health/coronavirus-six-feet.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{bases
    its recommendation of six feet}~on the idea that most large droplets
    that people expel when they cough or sneeze will fall to the ground
    within six feet. But six feet has never been a magic number that
    guarantees complete protection. Sneezes, for instance, can launch
    droplets a lot farther than six feet,
    \href{https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2763852}{according
    to a recent study}. It's a rule of thumb: You should be safest
    standing six feet apart outside, especially when it's windy. But
    keep a mask on at all times, even when you think you're far enough
    apart.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}{%
  \paragraph{I have antibodies. Am I now
  immune?}\label{i-have-antibodies-am-i-now-immune}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    As of right
    now,\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/07/22/health/covid-antibodies-herd-immunity.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{~that
    seems likely, for at least several months.}~There have been
    frightening accounts of people suffering what seems to be a second
    bout of Covid-19. But experts say these patients may have a
    drawn-out course of infection, with the virus taking a slow toll
    weeks to months after initial exposure.~People infected with the
    coronavirus typically
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-020-2456-9}{produce}~immune
    molecules called antibodies, which are
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{protective
    proteins made in response to an
    infection}\href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/2020/05/07/health/coronavirus-antibody-prevalence.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{.
    These antibodies may}~last in the body
    \href{https://www.nature.com/articles/s41591-020-0965-6}{only two to
    three months}, which may seem worrisome, but that's~perfectly normal
    after an acute infection subsides, said Dr. Michael Mina, an
    immunologist at Harvard University. It may be possible to get the
    coronavirus again, but it's highly unlikely that it would be
    possible in a short window of time from initial infection or make
    people sicker the second time.
  \end{itemize}
\item ~
  \hypertarget{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}{%
  \paragraph{What are my rights if I am worried about going back to
  work?}\label{what-are-my-rights-if-i-am-worried-about-going-back-to-work}}

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Employers have to provide
    \href{https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/covid-19/standards.html}{a safe
    workplace}~with policies that protect everyone equally.
    \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/article/coronavirus-money-unemployment.html?action=click\&pgtype=Article\&state=default\&region=MAIN_CONTENT_3\&context=storylines_faq}{And
    if one of your co-workers tests positive for the coronavirus, the
    C.D.C.}~has said that
    \href{https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/guidance-business-response.html}{employers
    should tell their employees}~-\/- without giving you the sick
    employee's name -\/- that they may have been exposed to the virus.
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

``It's very important to get your message across,'' said Mr. Jones at
the end of the interview. ``You guys did a good job expressing your
opinion. I appreciate you all stopping and talking with me tonight.''

Ms. Clark was again watching from home. ``He was in the middle of
everything,'' she says of Mr. Jones. ``For him, professionally, that was
a cool experience, but at the same time I noticed with him and in
general with the George Floyd thing, I think it had a unique impact on
Black men. It was a stressful time for them in particular. He also had
to deal with his own feelings about the state of America.''

Aside from several just-to-be-sure coronavirus tests, the rest of the
summer passed relatively peacefully until the couple found themselves,
on Aug. 8, on another city rooftop on another sticky day.

Image

The bride and groom enjoy cake and champagne with their guests after the
ceremony.Credit...Lyndon French for The New York Times

The couple's parents, Demetrius Davis, the pastor of CityPoint Community
Church, (plus two photographers, a reporter and a hotel staffer)
gathered on the 17th-floor terrace of Chicago's downtown Kimpton Hotel
Palomar, sweating beneath their face masks. Ms. Jones, the mother of the
groom, sported one covered in flashing silver sequins. A breeze kicked
up at the bride's arrival, lightly ruffling the oversize organza flower
pinned to the Vera Wang gown she and her mother found in Chicago. Ms.
Jones played DJ, pressing a button on her son's phone, to queue up a
jazz cover of John Legend's ``All of Me,'' while the bride, per the
hotel's safety requirements, wore a lacy mask crafted by her dry
cleaner, and walked down an abbreviated aisle strewn with mauve rose
petals.

While their parents wiped their eyes, the couple held hands in front of
the golden hour Chicago skyline, gazed at each other, and tried to dial
down their grins. Pastor Davis read a passage from I Corinthians and in
a short blessing prayed for bright days in the couple's future. They
hopped over a broom acquired from Etsy to some applause from viewers
from a nearby high-rise watching from their balconies.

After cake and champagne on the rooftop with their parents but before a
9 p.m. restaurant reservations, the couple video chatted with their
siblings and their families.

Before taking a four-day honeymoon trip to the Traverse City area in
Michigan to hike the dunes and visit local wineries, the couple returned
to their apartment to enjoy some time off with each other and with Jack,
no longer just Ms. Clark's cat. ``It is now our cat,'' Mr. Jones said.

\begin{center}\rule{0.5\linewidth}{\linethickness}\end{center}

\hypertarget{on-this-day}{%
\subsubsection{On This Day}\label{on-this-day}}

\textbf{When} Aug. 8, 2020

\textbf{Where} Kimpton Hotel Palomar, Chicago

\textbf{Hometown Treats} After the rooftop ceremony, the newlyweds cut a
two-tier almond cake with buttercream frosting from ECBG Cake Studio in
Chicago. ``I don't know if we're allowed to feed each other during the
pandemic,'' the bride said. ``We're in the same household,'' the groom
pointed out.

\textbf{Intimate Reception} The couple and their parents enjoyed a patio
dinner at Aba, a Mediterranean restaurant in Chicago's West Loop. They
dined on lamb, shrimp, hummus, as well as homemade stracciatella, a
gelato, and frozen Greek yogurt. They also sipped champagne sent to the
table as a surprise from friends.

\textbf{Putting It in Writing} The morning of the wedding, the bride and
groom wrote each other cards and exchanged gifts --- she gave him a
Briggs and Riley duffel, he gave her diamond stud earrings. They also
wrote thank you notes to their parents.

\emph{Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook
(}\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/nytimesstyles}{\emph{Styles}}
\emph{and}
\href{https://www.facebookcorewwwi.onion/modernlove}{\emph{Modern
Love}}\emph{), Twitter
(}\href{https://twitter.com/nytstyles}{\emph{Styles}}\emph{,}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytfashion}{\emph{Fashion}} \emph{and}
\href{https://twitter.com/nytimesvows}{\emph{Weddings}}\emph{) and}
\href{https://instagram.com/nytimesfashion}{\emph{Instagram}}\emph{.}

Advertisement

\protect\hyperlink{after-bottom}{Continue reading the main story}

\hypertarget{site-index}{%
\subsection{Site Index}\label{site-index}}

\hypertarget{site-information-navigation}{%
\subsection{Site Information
Navigation}\label{site-information-navigation}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice}{©~2020~The
  New York Times Company}
\end{itemize}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/}{NYTCo}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us}{Contact
  Us}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytco.com/careers/}{Work with us}
\item
  \href{https://nytmediakit.com/}{Advertise}
\item
  \href{http://www.tbrandstudio.com/}{T Brand Studio}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy/cookie-policy\#how-do-i-manage-trackers}{Your
  Ad Choices}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/privacy}{Privacy}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service}{Terms
  of Service}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale}{Terms
  of Sale}
\item
  \href{https://spiderbites.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion}{Site Map}
\item
  \href{https://help.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/hc/en-us}{Help}
\item
  \href{https://www.nytimes3xbfgragh.onion/subscription?campaignId=37WXW}{Subscriptions}
\end{itemize}
